[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'The other guy' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">October 26, 2001</span>
</p>
<h1>The other guy</h1>

<p>Someone sent me <a
href="http://www.chriswinters.com/">this link</a> yesterday
and asked if it was me. My wife and I busted our collective
guts laughing about it. I think I'm going to give people
that link instead of my website from now on :-)

<p>I've been talking with a guy about developing a plugin
manager and interface for lots of stuff concerning web
applications. And we'd gotten to the point of talking where
I had to code something up, so despite all this other stuff
I have to do I'm trying to develop a first draft of it. It
will be extremely useful if we get it off the ground.

<p>I'm a little hesitant to get into this new <a
href="http://www.officevision.com/pub/p5ee/">P5EE</a> stuff
because it will be such a timesuck, and I'm not good at
articulating what I mean sometimes with people I don't know.
But I'm in a pretty good position to discuss a lot of these
issues because I've written web application and data
persistence frameworks in Perl and also used J2EE as more
than a servlet monkey. (And will probably be using J2EE
again very soon...)

<p>Also, <a href="http://www.advogato.org/proj/SPOPS/">SPOPS</a> 0.52 released -- bugfixes and
relatively small enhancements. Trying to get these things
out more quickly now, with fewer big changes so there are no
issues about upgrading.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=80">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: cwinters.com; perl -->
