[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Fiction: Consequentially Advertising' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Consequentially Advertising</H1>

<P>The boss was angry, very angry. Jerome didn't know how angry until the boss
said:</P>

<P> &quot;Goddammit, Silver, I know you can do better work than this! My two
year-old <STRONG>daughter</STRONG> can do better work than this! Give me
something by Monday morning or you're out of here! For good!&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome got up silently and left Kurtzmann's office. He'd been yelled at
before, but never so harshly. He just hadn't been able to <STRONG>do</STRONG>
anything lately. Since his arrival at the agency a year and a half before when
he zipped off three memorable ad campaigns in two months, people looked at him
as a prodigy, a whiz kid with all the answers. Everyone expected more of the
same slam bang ideas. Especially Mr. Kurtzmann.</P>

<P> Because of the pressure, he started drinking heavily after his twenty-first
birthday three months before and often showed up to work smelly and late. While
he rode down the elevator, Jerome promised himself he'd stay clean over the
weekend. Hamburgers, gotta think about hamburgers, Burger Gnome hamburgers.</P>

<P> He left the building and walked over to the Metro station. He got on the
escalator and stood on the right even though Metro tradition told him to stand
on the left so people could pass on the right. One thing about Washington, D.C.,
he thought, was their clean subways. Nothing like New York, nothing. Jerome
stepped off the escalator, bought a <EM>Washington Post</EM> and read the
Sports section while waiting for an Orange Line train. Nothing much happening,
although people (especially columnists, at least once a week) were constantly
talking about Washington getting a new baseball team.</P>

<P> Jerome snorted. These people wouldn't Support a president for four years,
much less a baseball team. The Bullets had won the NBA championship in, what?
'78? '79? Something like that. Two years later nobody was going to the games.
How --
<STRONG>Why</STRONG> -- the hell would they go to baseball games? In the hot
summer? Outdoors? Forget it. These people are so fucking fickle, he thought. So
fucking trendy and fickle that Jerome had no idea why he consented to come and
be a part of a new agency based in D.C.</P>

<P> He knew why though, he knew exactly why: he just didn't like to let himself
know he knew. A senior executive (Kurtzmann) from one of the New York heavies
decided to break off, move to D.C. and hopefully start a new movement South, out
of the New York shithole. Jerome had written a letter to the agency about an
internship and in it he mentioned a few ideas for campaigns. Just sketches, not
fully formed, but Kurtzmann liked them enough to hire Jerome before he left
college. Kurtzmann told Jerome he could finish his school while still working,
the agency would pay for it free and clear. Jerome just had to wait a year or
so, until everything was settled, and he could have his pick of any university
in D.C. Georgetown, American, George Washington, whatever he wanted.</P>

<P> It had been over a year and nothing was settled. The agency was doing fine,
but according to Kurtzmann, it was always in flux and could never spare him.
Jerome knew better though. Everybody knew he was burned out and nobody cared one
way or the other. They were just seeing if he had one last spark in him before
they set him on the curb to be picked up.</P>

<P> &quot;Bing--Bong,&quot; the train said, much too loud. Jerome stepped
through the open doors, then peeked his head back out to read the sign above the
entrance to make sure it was going in the right direction, into suburban
Virginia rather than suburban Maryland. Although, he thought, there really isn't
that much difference. </P>

<P> 	Same fucking hypocrites, same fucking people concerned that the &quot;right&quot;
neighbors move in and that their kids get the &quot;right&quot; SAT prep courses
so they get in the ''right'' college. Otherwise, of course, the entire American
way of life will be ruined, &quot;right?&quot; Jerome chuckled bitterly to
himself and looked for an open seat.</P>

<P> He found one and sat down beside an officer, from the Pentagon, probably.
All gussied up and nowhere to go, all medals and badges and stars. He started
reading the front page, looking behind him first to make sure nobody was reading
over his shoulder. Dull, dull, dull. Dictators here, uprisings there, starvation
yonder and assassinations everywhere. Jerome didn't know why he bothered reading
the paper anymore. He stood up.</P>

<P> &quot;Cattle!&quot; he yelled. &quot;You're all fucking cattle!&quot;</P>

<P> The rush hour crowd looked up at him then stuck their noses back in their
newspapers and paperbacks, into their Tom Clancys and Danielle Steels and
National Enquirers.</P>

<P> &quot;Hey! Get your nose out of that shit! Listen to me. We're all fucking
cattle! They lead us by the nose to where they want us to go and we go, we go
gentle into that black night. Image! Image! Don't you underst--&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Hey, you wanna keep it down up there?&quot; a passenger yelled. &quot;I've
got kids on here.&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome put his right palm to his stomach and bowed, bumping his head into a
large woman's back. As he rose, he squinted at her, then reached over and
plucked a hair from a mole on the back of her neck. &quot;Look!&quot; he yelled,
holding up the hair, &quot;Look! Look at the hair I got from this woman, out of
a big mole. Look! Look at this big fat woman. This big fat woman who probably
feels terrible because that's the way she is. But why does she feel bad? Because
we <STRONG>make her feel bad</STRONG>. We make this poor woman feel bad for
being herself don't you see that? We make her feel as if she has something to
cure, something to fix but this woman is this woman and the <STRONG>image</STRONG>
we have of women says they should be <STRONG>so</STRONG> fucking tall and weigh
<STRONG>so</STRONG> fucking much, that their tits should be <STRONG>so</STRONG>
fucking big and their ass stick out <STRONG>just</STRONG> so far and we
--they-- make you believe all this. Don't you see? <STRONG>Can't</STRONG> you
see?&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome jumped over to the woman who had yelled out, and he bowed again. &quot;And
now to come back to my original point. Well, pardon me, madam, but your kids
should hear this too, before they get slaughtered like the rest of us. That's
what cattle do, y'know, they get slaughtered. They get their throats cut by
creatures they hardly recognize, and they die without a purpose except to feed
people with the meat off their carcasses. We don't even <STRONG>matter</STRONG>
to the people with power, the head honchos, we're just a bunch of fucking
carcasses. The people with power want more power and more money even though they
have more than you or you or you or me can ever imagine. They want more and more
and more and they're willing to sell you and you--&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Bing--Bong,&quot; the train said, still too loud. The doors slammed
open and a dozen people got off, most shaking their heads.</P>

<P> &quot;--and you and me to get whatever they want.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Bing--Bong,&quot; the train said, louder still. The doors whished
shut and the train started again through the tunnels.</P>

<P> A high school kid with a ring through his nose and dyed orange hair put a
hand on Jerome's shoulder. &quot;Woooow, dude, I know what you mean, man. But
check this out, the people in power are gonna stay that way. Might makes right
and that's the way the world works, dude. Get used to it.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;No! No! It doesn't have to be that way. If each and every one of us
refuses to believe what they say, refuses to accept image as a substitute for
reality, refuses to give in then they have no choice but to <STRONG>listen.</STRONG>&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome looked closely at everyone around him. &quot;I know what you're
thinking, 'Why do they even need us?' Well, I'll tell you. They don't want to
run the machines. If you're not there to screw the nuts on the bolts, if you're
not there to punch the button twice a minute, they'll notice. You believe they
can think of ways to sell their bloody fucking products? No! So they turn to
people like me, like -,meH Jerome clutched his shirt and pulled. &quot;Like me,&quot;
he repeated, trembling. He collapsed on the floor of the train, sobbing
uncontrollably into the crook of his arm, and finally he slipped into that good
night of unconsciousness while the train sped underground and the people looked
on.</P>
<HR>

<P> 	A woman: &quot;Silver, Jerome. Social security two-two-eight, three-three,
two-oh-two-two. Male, caucasian, five feet ten inches, one hundred sixty pounds,
twelve inch penis.</P>

<P> A deeper voice, a large man: &quot;Joyce! Stop that, this is serious. Hair?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Brown.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Eyes?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Brown.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Temperature?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Ninety-eight point seven.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Pulse?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Seventy-five.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Blood type?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;A-positive.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Pressure?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;One-ten over seventy-six.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Distinguishing features?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Big ears and a little scar on the top of his nose, but I don't see
anything else. Oh, a 'Born to Die' tattoo on his chest and a twelve inch penis.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Ha ha Joyce. It wasn't funny the first time. I can get you out of
this job as quickly as I got you in, you know. Is he up yet?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;I don't know, what do I look like?&quot; Joyce poked Jerome in the
chest: &quot;Hello? Hello? Anybody home?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Okay okay, let's leave him be for a while.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Sure. Weird shit, people on the Metro,&quot; Joyce said, closing the
door behind her.</P>

<P> Jerome opened one eye to make sure nobody was there. He was in a hospital,
he knew that much, but he couldn't remember how he got there. Nothing was hooked
up to him, so he assumed he couldn't be all bad. He tried to remember an
ambulance but couldn't; he couldn't picture what he had been wearing, but he
knew it wasn't the flimsy gown he had on now. Jerome swung his legs over the
side of the bed and felt the cold tile. He hated that, especially when he woke
up in the mornings at home. The bathroom was always so cold.</P>

<P> He went over to a closet and found his clothes, along with his wallet. He
remembered now, Kurtzmann yelling at him for not getting the burger campaign
done yet, and Monday was the absolute deadline. Absent from his brain, however,
was any idea for an advertisement.</P>

<P> Jerome quickly put on his clothes and found a pad and pencil in the desk
drawer beside the hospital bed. He scribbled a note saying he felt fine, signing
his name and giving his address in case they needed to bill him. He left it on
the bed and left the hospital as fast as he could.</P>

<P> It was dark out, but a Metro station was only a few blocks away, so he
walked. Most people he knew didn't like walking at all. Not so much because of
crime but just because they didn't like walking.</P>

<P> &quot;People are so fucking lazy,&quot; Jerome said. &quot;Fucking lazy as
hell.&quot; The Metro! That's right! He was talking about something and that was
the last thing he remembered. And it was light out then, daytime. What time was
it? A digital clock on a bank said 8:30. Probably hit his head. He felt around
for a bump and found nothing.</P>

<P> A window full of neon beer signs glowed on his right and suddenly he felt
thirsty. Beer thirsty. Jerome listened to the signs (&quot;Just one,&quot; he
promised) and opened the door. He asked for a draft and drank at the bar, it was
too depressing to drink alone at a table. Money? he asked himself, and pulled
his wallet out. Seventeen dollars, not much. Enough to go home. He finished his
beer, gulped down another then walked to the Metro station. Jerome got on a
train and remembered exactly what he'd said before, sheepishly grinned at his
reflection in the window and raised no ruckus. His car was not robbed, again,
and he drove silently home. He didn't feel like cooking so he flopped onto his
bed. After a while he masturbated and cried himself to sleep, thinking about
styrofoam containers and hamburgers, hamburgers, hamburgers.</P>

<P> Jerome paced. He'd been pacing all day. He paced through his kitchen,
around and around, through the hall into the den where the tv was on, over his
couch and into the bathroom. He sat on the toilet and put his head into his
hands. &quot;Damn, damn, damn! Burger Gnome! Fucking Burger Gnome! Shit!&quot;</P>

<P>
<EM>&quot;I had indigestion, but my doctor said Mylanta,&quot;</EM> the tv
said. It had some problem Jerome hadn't got fixed yet. If he wasn't holding down
the channel he wanted to watch on the remote, the numbers on the cable box kept
changing every six seconds or so, going sequentially from 1 to 62, over and over
again. Somehow the disjointed sights and sounds soothed him, playing in the
background.</P>

<P> Nothing was coming. He saw dancing burgers and singing burgers, swimming
burgers and burgers seductively draped in silk. Fries waltzed with little feet
and straws serenaded bowls of chili. But nothing worked, just silly things
passed in and out of his head.</P>

<P>
<EM>&quot;Heading today's news, the Irish Republican Army has claimed
responsibility for another...&quot;</EM></P>

<P> &quot;Okay, what's a burger? You got your bun,&quot; he said, standing up, &quot;and
you got your tomato. You got your lettuce, maybe mayonnaise or mustard or
ketchup, or maybe all three. Pickles, onions. And a burger, a fuck-ing burger.&quot;
Jerome roared like a lion to the ceiling, then breathlessly said, '~ow am I
supposed to sell these things? They're all the fucking same!&quot;</P>

<P>
<EM>&quot;And now, a word from our sponsor...&quot;</EM></P>

<P> &quot;Okay,&quot; he said again, &quot;who eats burgers? Mom eats burgers,
kids love burgers, dads eat big fat artery-clogging blig-blogging burgers. Hicks
eat burgers and yuppies eat burgers. Blacks, whites, Hispanics, Asians, illegal
aliens, urban people and farmers, housewives and feminists. Old people if
they've got their teeth, sick people if they don't puke, well people if they eat
meat. The only fucking people who don't eat hamburgers are either dead or a
fucking hypocrite vegetarian!&quot;</P>

<P>
<EM>&quot;Mom, do you ever--do you ever not feel fresh?&quot;</EM></P>

<P> Out of the bathroom through the hall, through the tv room (The Wheel of
Fortune was spinning round and round, the crowd shouting <EM>&quot;Big money,
big money! ) </EM>into the kitchen. &quot;Okay,&quot; he said, &quot;burgers.
Burgers burgers burgers, everybody eats burgers.&quot; He rooted around in his
refrigerator and pulled jar after jar out. He almost dropped the Hellman's, but
he was so wired he caught the jar before it hit the floor. He got lettuce,
tomatoes, soy sauce and horseradish. <EM>(&quot;Tired of the news?  Tonight at
eleven try something different, try Night Court&quot; ) </EM>He got garlic and
salsa and sweet relish, Velveeta and easy-spread butter, cream cheese and sliced
olives and bacon. Cocktail onions and jalapeno peppers and Dutch pumpkin butter.
They were forming some odd pattern on his countertop. It seemed to make sense,
but no sense Jerome could name. It was too big for him to ponder for more than a
fraction of a second.</P>

<P>
<EM>&quot;What? It can't be! You're pregnant?&quot;</EM></P>

<P> After yanking almost everything out of the refrigerator, he pulled the
freezer open and removed a box of Murray's 100% Beef Patties, cradling them in
his arm. He opened the cupboard beside the oven with his foot and kicked at the
pots and pans, waiting for the cast iron griddle to fall out. It finally did and
Jerome grabbed it and set it on top of the stove, turned the burner on high.</P>

<P> Soy sauce splattered onto the hot griddle and it hissed in pain. Sweet
smoke and steam mushroomed from the pan. <EM>(&quot;Shake it, freeze it, mousse
it for maximum weight loss&quot; )</EM> He slapped a frozen burger on and the
griddle hissed even more, daring to spit hot fat at him. &quot;Yeah buddy,&quot;
he said, &quot;we're making sizzle burgers. Mmm-mmm good, mmm-mmm.&quot; Jerome
got a spatula out of a drawer and set it beside the oven.</P>

<P> Out of the kitchen into the tv room. Jerome turned down the tv (soft music
was silenced and a woman's head was slowly hitting a pillow with the 'Unisom'
logo on it), picked up the phone and dialed long distance. A woman's voice said,
&quot;Hello?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Mom?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Jer, is that you?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Yeah ma, it's me.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Why Jerome Jeremy Silver, I can't believe you called your mother.
What's a big man like you talking to me for?&quot;</P>

<P> (Judge Wapner pounded his gavel calmly and a verdict for the plaintiff was
shown on the screen. $1500.)</P>

<P> &quot;C'mon ma, give me a break. I'm in trouble, I'm in real trouble. It's
juSt--nothing's coming ma, nothing's coming. I keep pounding and pounding but
nothing's coming and I think, I think--I don't know if I can handle this much
longer. I mean it just seems like everything is so fu--so darned worthless, that
nobody means anything and people like me help people mean nothing. We teach
them, we force them to act a certain-- Ma? You there?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Hmm? Yes Jer. Well, I'm sorry to cut you short but little Jamie just
spit up and I'm going to have to help your dad clean her up, you know how he is.
Can I call you back, in about five minutes?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Oh, don't worry--forget it ma. I'll call you Monday night, okay? I
promise.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Are you sure? I can give dad the phone while I do this.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;No, no, that's okay. Really.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Jerome, is everything okay?&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome sighed. &quot;Yeah ma, everything's fine. Take care of Jamie and
tell her her big brother loves her.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;I love you too.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Bye ma.&quot; Jerome turned the receiver over in his hands and
--gently, gently-set it back down in its holder. &quot;Bye ma,&quot; he
repeated, and smelled the soy sauce, the burger frying in the kitchen. He raised
his head to the ceiling and closed his eyes, </P>

<P> breathing in and out, over and over, trying to make sense of everything. &quot;Bye
ma,&quot; he said again. He went in the kitchen and grabbed the huge mayonnaise
jar, raised it above his head with two hands and smashed it to the kitchen
linoleum. Glass scattered along the floor and the mayonnaise splotched into a
white greasy Rorschach test. Jerome picked up the mustard jar and threw it at
the wall, laughing gleefully at the simply splashing yellow wallpaper he now
had. He snatched the ketchup by the neck but found it was a squeezable, so he
popped off the top and set it on the ground. He jumped high in the air and came
down square on the bottle, stomping the red goo all over the oven face,
speckling cabinet faces left and right. He did it again and again.</P>

<P> &quot;God,&quot; --stomp.</P>

<P> &quot;damn,&quot; --stomp.</P>

<P> &quot;fucking,&quot; --stomp.</P>

<P> &quot;hamburgers!&quot; --stomp stomp stomp. Red red everywhere.</P>

<P> He was gasping now, but he looked at the kitchen and smiled. The air was
full of vinegar and he liked it, the smell of condiments. Jerome reached over
and turned off the oven. He took the jar of jalapenos into the den and threw it
at the silent television, shattering the glass. Sparks flew out of the set and
smoke trailed up from the box. Jerome grabbed his coat from the bedroom and
left.</P>
<HR>

<P> The Metro station was over two miles away, but he walked. It was late fall,
a brisk night full of promise and death, Jerome thought, promise and death. And
that's what it's all about, isn't it? You have this promise, this hope, this
dream and all of a sudden it's gone quicker than you can say Kalamazoo.
Kalamazoo, Kalamazoo.</P>

<P> &quot;Kalamazoo, Kalamazoo,&quot; Jerome said, running a hand through his
hair.</P>

<P> It took about forty minutes to reach the Metro station. He put his farecard
into the stall's slot and it popped out the top. He took it and the gates hissed
open. He walked through and down the escalator. It was late, nobody was around
except trashed high school kids going back to D.C. from some suburban party.</P>

<P> It took a train ten minutes to come and Jerome waited on a cold polished
granite bench.  The lights near the track blinked on and off, signaling that the
train was near. Jerome got up and waited, blew into his hands. The train's light
filled up the tunnel and it honked its horn once. The driver whisked past Jerome
and the train eventually stopped.</P>

<P> &quot;Bing--Bong,&quot; it said, quieter than before. He got in to a nearly
empty car, just some bum being a bum at the end of the car. Jerome sat at the
opposite end, wanting to stew in thought.</P>

<P> &quot;Fucking, fuck,&quot; the bum yelled. &quot;Fucking fuck women, fuck.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Bing--Bong,&quot; the train said, and the doors slid quietly shut and
the train picked up speed into D.C.</P>

<P> Jerome peered at the bum. The man was talking to himself, then yelling
obscenities every minute or two, making no sense whatsoever.</P>

<P> &quot;Iced fucking iced tea going down to fuck,&quot; the bum yelled.</P>

<P> Jerome thought about his mother, about all the people who were on the train
the day before. The bum yelled, &quot;Fucking dog shows her fucking face and you
fuck her right up the ass, fucking freak.&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome thought about ketchup and home, and new television sets. &quot;Fucking
shithead mother fucker, stole my fucking Fritos,&quot; the bum yelled.</P>

<P> &quot;Fucking hamburgers!&quot; Jerome yelled back. &quot;Goddam shitty
fucking hamburgers!&quot;</P>

<P> The bum looked back. &quot;Hey!&quot; he yelled. &quot;Hey! Only one fuck
is fucking allowed to yell and that fuck is me, so fucking shut the fuck up!&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome got up and walked towards the bum. &quot;What do you know about
hamburgers?&quot; he quietly asked the bum.</P>

<P> &quot;Hamburgers? Hamburgers? What the fuck do you want hamburgers for?
Hamburgers?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;What do you know about hamburgers?&quot; Jerome repeated, firmer.</P>

<P> The bum suddenly turned thoughtful, &quot;Hamburgers. Well, hamburgers.&quot;
He scratched his chin, &quot;The last time I had a hamburger was two years ago
and I looked at the fucker and it was this little itty bitty fucking thing. So I
says to the cashier I says, 'Hey! What the fuck is this? This is no fucking
hamburger! Why can't you make a burger like my mom used to?&quot;</P>

<P> Jerome's eyes lit up and he said, slowly, &quot;What did you say to the
cashier?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;What the fuck? You deaf?&quot; the bum yelled. &quot;I said, 'Make it
like mom!&quot;' (Jerome saw the whole campaign in his eyes, the entire fucking
thing played out in a second and a half. A little kid, cute as Bambi and barely
big enough to see above the counter, says, &quot;Can I have a hamburger?&quot;
and dumps a ton of change on the counter. The cashier -- tall, goofy looking,
with acne -- reaches back and grabs a styrofoam container, shoves it toward the
kid. Then the geek scoops all the money up and pours it in the register and
says, with a snort, &quot;Have a nice day.&quot; The kid opens the burger to
reveal a splotch of ketchup and a splotch of mustard and, under these, a tiny
silver-dollar size burger. &quot;What's this?&quot; the kid says, innocently.
Then, a little louder, &quot;This isn't how mom makes 'em.&quot; And the geek
looks dumb, like geeks do, then a wonderful delicious Burger Gnome burger comes
on the screen, a <STRONG>double</STRONG> burger for God's sake! With so much
beef you can hardly believe and that's it! A burger is a <STRONG>burger</STRONG>
and you see <STRONG>mom</STRONG> frying a burger on the grill because Burger
Gnome doesn't <STRONG>need</STRONG> any clowns or paper crowns or bunny rabbits
because Burger Gnome has <STRONG>momburgers</STRONG> and Burger Gnome has this
old woman looking like somebody's mom handing the kid a burger wrapped in
<STRONG>paper</STRONG> in the last scene and Burger Gnome has 100%,
All-American, Grade A, USDA Approved beef by mom!)</P>

<P> Jerome held the bum's face in his hands and kissed the bum square on the
lips. &quot;Yes!&quot; Jerome danced in the aisle. &quot;Yes yes yes yes, I am
so great. I am wonderful. I got it! Waaa-hooo!&quot; he yelled, throwing his
arms about like a lunatic. He calmed down for a second, trembling with
excitement, and reached in his wallet and gave the bum all his money -- a ten
and a five, and even the extra emergency twenty stashed behind his driver's
license.  &quot;Take this,&quot; he clasped the money in the bum's hands, &quot;and
buy hamburgers. Buy Thunderbird or Mad Dog or Night Train, buy Absolut or Jack
Daniel's but buy, buy, buy!&quot;</P>

<P> The train came to a stop and said, &quot;Bing--Bong,&quot; and Jerome
dashed out.</P>

<P> &quot;Bing--Bong,&quot; the train whispered. The doors slid shut and the
train pulled away.</P>

<P> Jerome waited for another train to take him home. He jumped back and forth
from one foot to another, nervous, happy and excited. He had a kitchen to clean
and hamburgers by the truckload to sell, sell, sell.</P>

<P ALIGN="CENTER"><EM>Last revision: 25 Feb 1991</EM></P>
