[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Fiction: Two Percent' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">There's Only One Great One</H1>

<P>&quot;This hockey puck,&quot; I told my girlfriend, &quot;was given to me by
the Great One, Wayne Gretzky, and now it's yours.&quot;</P>

<P> Robin looked at me with a sort of half-sneer, not quite an Elvis sneer but
an admirable imitation for a woman. 'Sure, you just got this in the airport,
didn't you?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Well, that's more true than you know. It was given to me by Wayne
Gretzky in the airport. Honest. See, there was this old man who smelled really
bad sitting in this seat waiting for a plane. He wasn't drunk or anything, not a
bum like that, but he smelled like he might have been rolling around in garbage
or something. He had a woman with him as well, a nasty old hag with big huge
warts and hairs growing out of bumps on her nose. Well, I started talking to
them because it was really late and nobody else was around. Plus I was a little
drunk from the flight home, not very, but enough to wonder what they were doing
around there.</P>

<P> &quot;So, I start talking to them and I can tell, totally tell, that
they're faking their voices. They weren't very good at it and I said, 'Hey, who
are you trying to fool? Not me I hope. Those aren't your voices, who are you?'
And I pulled on the old guy's beard and it came right off, right in my hand. I
looked at him and said, 'Holy shit. You're Wayne Gretzky. Dude, my girlfriend
thinks you're the greatest thing since birth control 'and---&quot;</P>

<P> Robin socked me in the arm, &quot;You did not say that, did you?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Yup,&quot; I said. &quot;He thought it was funny as hell. And the
ever-lovely Janet Jones was indeed the lady sitting next to him, but she really
didn't say too much. They asked me not to give them away because they'd been
bugged by people all day. Can you imagine that? Being so famous?&quot;</P>
<HR>

<P> Robin and I met through a mutual friend and, in a surprise to us both, we
wound up living together four months later. She wasn't like anybody I'd ever
been out with, which was good, definitely. We could talk you know? Like ordinary
people, not two people who love each other and are always afraid of saying the
wrong thing. Well, then again, I suppose if two people really are in love
they're not scared of spooking the other person away with a few words. I've
thought I was in love a few times, but I suppose by that test I wasn't.</P>

<P> Married people are like that, always able to say anything to each other
that is. At least people who should be married are. My parents were, and I'll
always respect that. Well, that's not right. Respect is too clinical, too
detached. I love them for it, to be sure, but it's strange having parents that
nobody else can relate to. I like it though, divorce seems to be so nasty.</P>

<P> A lot of people my age have at least three parents, maybe more. Those baby
boomers, I suppose once they &quot;discovered&quot; sex they &quot;discovered&quot;
immediate gratification and mistook it for love. That's a silly thing to say, I
know, but it seems that the only thing a lot of them take seriously is money.
Cars out the old wazoo, swimming pools for the maid and a hotline to the golf
course to get a tee time, all that stuff. It's nice, I guess. I certainly
wouldn't mind it, but I can't help thinking that niceties, luxuries like that
came at the expense of something a little more important. I mean, during the
sixties all these people were going on and on about the cosmos, about collective
mankind and &quot;oneness&quot; but when it came time to grow up, they sold out
just like their parents, the people the sixties-folk swore they've never be
like. They even wrote lots of songs about it, &quot;M-M-M-My Generation&quot;
and all.</P>

<P> That's a little harsh, I know, but so many people --a good deal of them
born in the years after World War II-- have been writing lately that ~~
generation (their kids) are lazy, don't have a &quot;focus&quot; and are
basically all around apathetic to just about everything. A lot has changed since
the days of Monterey Pop and Free Love, but they seem insistent on applying the
values they had when they were our age to us now, which is probably the same
thing they went through with their parents. I wonder if each generation's
temperament (or whatever you want to call it) can be judged from the reactions
to their parents' values? Sounds kinda heavy, but it doesn't sound right either.
I don't think reactions are as important as actions themselves, which, I
suppose, is the reason the generation before us is so angry.</P>
<HR>

<P> Robin really does like Wayne Gretzky, an awful lot. The reason he was in
town--or rather, trying to get out of town--was the All-Star Game, this year it
was at the Civic Arena downtown. Some guys I hang around with sometimes were
really excited about the game. Most of them were from the Northeast, a region
that seems more able to accept hockey and everything that comes with it a lot
more than, say, the Southwest. Then again, people really might be the same all
over. I really can't get into it much, mainly because I can't follow the puck.
All these guys are skating around, slapping at something I can't see. Maybe it's
a little thing, but it bothers me just the same. Imagine watching a soccer game
and not being able to see the ball, or getting married and not seeing who's
under the veil.</P>

<P> There it is again, that marriage thing. When I was a little kid there was
this girl named Donna Engler who I wanted to marry. I proudly proclaimed to all
the world that I would marry Donna in the Shakey's Pizza Parlor, or the Kentucky
Fried Chicken if Shakey's couldn't be arranged. We had what would be called now
a </P>

<P> platonic relationship, we'd go to the field near her house with a bucket of
water and one of those plastic water rockets and launch the red beacon as high
as it would go. Then we'd run over to where it was and try to find it in the
tall grass. This was when I lived in California, when I was about 6 or 7. 1
thought it was the natural thing to do, I guess.</P>

<P> My mom always asks me if Robin and I are in love. She's like that,
interested in when I'm going to get married. She wants grandkids from her son;
my sister's married and expecting. After I moved to Bremerton, Washington, then
Orange Park, Florida, and finally Alexandria, Virginia, I'd made up my mind to
never get married. It seemed like so much of a hassle, and girls didn't like me
much so I didn't like them much back.</P>

<P> Which, of course, wasn't true. I told myself that so I wouldn't be
miserable and blue, always wishing for something to happen which only I could
control anyway. Then I went to college, fresh with new teeth care of
orthodontics and new contact lenses, and I found girls. Not very many, and most
didn't last long because they were sort of ahead of me. I didn't know the give
and take part and they always assumed I did (like any red-blooded American male
should, right?), so it was more a case of not doing something rather than doing
something wrong. Then I graduated, got a decent job watching over computer
networks in a mondo gargantuan office building and met Robin.</P>

<P> And here we are, a year after we've started living together. And right now,
at this very moment, this exact second, I'm wondering whether I should ask Robin
to marry me. You know, what with this feminism thing, you'd think more women
would ask men on this marriage deal. I suppose that's silly though.</P>

<P> We've talked about it, but I always say it's too soon, or that I just don't
know if I'm ready. Those old excuses. They sounded old even the first time I
said them, I don't know why I still do. Robin says she is ready, and even ready
with me, but still...</P>

<P> There's something back there, like a Flying Dutchman trying to break
through the fog or an albatross around my neck, telling me to leave, while I
still can, A big stop sign from my subconscious. This makes me very uneasy,
knowing that a part of my brain is telling me not to do something while another
part is telling me to go ahead. It's like mutiny.</P>

<P> But, if it weren't for that ghost, this wouldn't be written down. I'm a
firm believer in the idea that you can sit and write and write and write, write
until your hand gets tired and you can't possibly write anymore. And if you do
it right and set your analytical mind on hold while you're doing it (sorta like
surfing), then go back and read it, everything's laid out. Like a map. All your
problems (well, maybe not all, at least a big one or two) are spelled out and,
deep in your heart, you'll know what to do.</P>

<P> But I know, deep in my heart, that I should marry Robin. I know that we're
good for each other, we enjoy each other's company and we fit each other like a
glove (take that any way you like). But...</P>

<P> Dammit, that something keeps popping up and I think I know what it is.</P>
<HR>

<P> When I was 9 years old, I saw a man beat his wife. She was yelling and
screaming for someone to help, please help. And their kids, these two girls
younger than I was, were hiding under the couch, just yelling as loud as they
could.</P>

<P> I was walking around the neighborhood -- no, wait, I was riding my bike
around and timing myself on my new LED watch to see how long it would take to
complete this intricate circuit, and my chain came off about halfway through. So
I had to walk it the rest of the way home. It was late enough for the sun to
have fallen beyond the Pacific horizon but not so late that my mom would be
worried. And this man, he was hitting his wife with his fists, kicking her with
his heavy workboots. He was much larger than her, probably 6 feet to her 5'4&quot;
or so, plus he had a large potbelly and a thick mustache. I heard the ruckus
inside -- the woman screaming and crying, the girls wailing, the man yelling
about how the woman was a &quot;Lying Bitch Whore&quot; over and over again.</P>

<P> I stood there and watched, face pressed against their sliding glass door.
Once, the man stopped hitting her to catch his breath and he looked right at me,
but he didn't see me. His eyes were all glazed over and he looked like he was
seeing everything and nothing at once. I got scared, slipped in the slick grass
and ran my bike all the way home.</P>

<P> When I got there, I told my parents and my father called the police. I
listened on another line with my hand over the receiver so nobody could hear me
breathing and the police said nobody had called them and that they'd look into
it.</P>

<P> That's one of the two things I remember most about the whole thing, the
policeman's dull dreary voice saying that they would &quot;Look into it&quot;
but actually hating the call because it was a &quot;Domestic Situation.&quot;
Policemen, I think, hate &quot;Domestic Situations&quot; quite a bit because if
a man is crazy enough to hurt his wife or kids, he's gotta be crazy enough to do
the same to a complete stranger, uniform or no. There's also the emotional brick
wall, about minding one's own business and all, but I think that's a holdover
from a long time ago, when men didn't fill their heads with bad chemicals or
have fathers who couldn't determine their own existence. It's a vicious chain,
really, especially all this alcoholic stuff. If you listen to the right people
on television, one or both of those little girls, if she lived long enough to
grow up, probably wound up doing the same thing to her kids unless she read the
right books or paid enough to talk to the right people.</P>

<P> But.. the other thing I remember, the thing that haunts me in my dreams to
this day, is the face of the man, one detail in particular.</P>

<P> There was a long stream of drool dribbling from the right side of his
mouth. When he yelled, there were tenuous strands of spit bridging his upper and
lower jaws. Every time he whipped his head around suddenly, a long rope of it
would swing and hit the opposite side of his face a fraction of a second after
his mouth had already arrived. There was -- then, in my eyes as a 9 year old kid
and now, in my eyes as a 27 year old adult -- no difference between that man who
was nearly killing his wife -- his mate dammit, his wife -- and a dog in a fight
who, even at death, won't release its deathgrip on an opponent's throat. Don't
you see? The man wasn't even a man anymore, he was a fucking animal.</P>
<HR>

<P> You know, about 30 minutes ago, before I started remembering all this, I
would have been lucky to remember anything at all about what happened that
night. True, I said there were two things that stuck in my head. But those two
things weren't complete memories, just little snippets, echoes maybe. And yes,
they were in my dreams, but just those two things, taken out of context, don't
amount to much.</P>

<P> There have been times: Watching a movie and a character will say something
or move a certain way, listening to the radio and a phrase is repeated or sound
echoed, or even certain smells (damp freshly mowed grass at night, scared greasy
bike chain sweat) when some high octane memory of that time is shocked into my
senses. But they were always quickly forgotten, just like dreams. If you
remember all your dreams, in their entirety, you'd probably go crazy. Memories
are weird things. Sometimes you can't tell if what you're remembering is from
what you've dreamed or from what you've experienced. And once you just sit down
and pick through your memories, they won't sit still. Sort of like trying to
rake a yard full of leaves on a windy day; you might get a bag or two filled,
but there's so much more to be cleaned that it seems you might as well have done
nothing. It's frustrating.</P>
<HR>

<P> So, what now? I mean, I should just go to her right now (she's doing a
crossword puzzle, I think), take her hand and say, &quot;Robin, will you marry
me?&quot; Or maybe, &quot;Hey Robin, wanna get hitched?&quot; Or, &quot;Robin,
you and me, we got a date at the church.&quot; Heck, I suppose I would need to
buy a ring.. but I do have one. After my father died, my mom gave me her wedding
ring. It's a good ring, really. Very simple, very elegant. I don't like jewelry
much, and I suppose my mom knows that. She seems to know everything else.</P>

<P> So I could, very easily, go get that ring from its hiding place, slide it
casually across the coffee table and say, &quot;Robin, I love you.&quot; Then,
as she opens the case: &quot;Will you marry me?&quot; I can do it, I know I can.
But...</P>

<P> No buts. Dammit, I'm going to do it.</P>

<P> Well, I had the ring in my hand, I was about to step into the living room
and I heard a noise. I can't be sure if it was real or whether I imagined it; if
it was just something floating up from limbo and going &quot;Boo!&quot; or the
cold, harsh reality of a belch coming from Robin's lips.</P>

<P> I'm not sure if you've noticed, but women don't do that sort of thing very
often -- as far as we know. Maybe men are proud of that bodily bravado, that
surreal quality which separates the sexes. Then again, maybe women just hold it
in better. </P>

<P> It could very well be that because they don't have the same attachments as
men do, they don't let the gas escape and eventually their body adapts and just
doesn't put out any more gas, one of those psychological mind-body things.</P>

<P> But anyway, it really wasn't a big belch that Robin let out. It could have
even been the beginning onslaught of heartburn for all I know. But that, again,
seems to be a male malady. You rarely see a woman covering microwaved frozen
burritos with the hottest picante sauce they can find and washing it down with
beer that is, ounce for ounce, cheaper than curdled milk.</P>

<P> Anyway (dammit, I'm really skating around here, aren't I?), for some
reason, a vision flashed into my head of a Robin fifty (sixty? a hundred?)
pounds heavier, hair all nasty and nicotine stained and put up in curlers,
sitting in the little crater she'd created for herself on the last cushion of
the couch, belching, loudly and proudly. It all happened in about a third of a
second and Robin didn't see me there looking, I'm sure, like a man who'd just
seen his life flushed down the toilet. I ran back in the bedroom and closed my
eyes and prayed that it absolutely wouldn't, couldn't happen. Now I'm back here,
scribbling this down on a legal pad that's probably been lying around for two or
three years.</P>

<P> But she loves me and I love her and damn that belching thing. I know, in my
head, that nothing of the sort will happen: Robin doesn't smoke and is one of
those people who eats pretty much whatever she wants and never gains any weight.
I think, however, one more thing needs to be said, then (I swear) I'm popping
the question.</P>
<HR>

<P> My mom and dad were both born in 1947 about a month and a half apart. My
mom and dad were also both born in Indiana, Mom from Richmond and Dad from a
town on the edge of Richmond called (honest, I wouldn't try to make something
like this up) Centerville. They grew up without knowing each other -- Richmond,
unlike Centerville, is a decent sized town -- and were both working at the
Belden factory in the summer of 1966. She was a secretary and he was a regular
old laborer, moving big spools of electrical cable around the big warehouse. My
mom had seen him around but assumed he was another hick, which, I suppose he
might have been back then. Near the end of the summer someone who knew them both
introduced them, after this someone had assured my mom that he wasn't a hick
--he went to the Naval Academy for gosh sakes -- and they went to a movie which
I can't remember but I'm sure if you asked my mom she could name it as easily as
her birthdate. They didn't have any more dates soon after, but around Christmas,
a weird thing happened, one of those things that makes me believe Ebenezer
Scrooge wasn't crazy.</P>

<P> My dad wanted to get in touch with my mom and called directory assistance.
He asked for a &quot;George Matthews,&quot; got the number, called my mom and
they went to a bar over the border in Ohio where minors could drink 3.2 beer.
Then this then that then shboom shbang, after my dad graduated -- in fact, the ~
he graduated --they got married.</P>

<P> But, see, the weird thing is: My mom's number was unlisted. There should
have been no way, short of Kathleen Matthews giving him the number, that Paul
O'Connell could have gotten it, married her and had me.</P>

<P> To explain: There were two men named George Matthews in Richmond. One
happened to be my grandfather, the other happened to be a deadbeat. My mom's dad
was sick of getting calls from people looking to collect bills from the other
George Matthews, so he got an unlisted number. So, when my dad called the
operator, he should have gotten the number for George Matthews, deadbeat.
Instead, he got the number of George Matthews, his future father-in-law. Weird,
huh?</P>

<P> So anyway, the reason I started talking about my parents is this: What they
had, their give and take and share this share that, their &quot;I do&quot;s and
their &quot;So help you God&quot;s -- it worked. I'll never understand it,
really. To understand a good marriage is to understand love, and I don't think
even the most prolific self-help writer could hope to aspire to that.</P>

<P> After my dad graduated, he went to flight training school and became a
pilot. I was born about a year after they got married, and for the next thirteen
years or so my dad went on cruise for about five or six months at a time, taking
up a total of about three or four years. I suppose something like that is either
going to make two people a lot closer or pull them apart, but then.. .that's
pretty melodramatic. I mean, there were people who just couldn't handle it, and
my mom, she had two kids to take care of (my sister's about a year and a half
younger than me). I just don't understand.</P>

<P> Selfishly, I figured my parents wouldn't have anything to do once my sister
and I left for college. (Maybe I hoped instead of figured.) But.. man, they were
still in love. Can you dig that? My father died in a car accident when I was 25
and all my life my parents were in love. Up to the day my father died.</P>

<P> And the point of all this is supposed to be: How the hell can I look at
marriage as such a bad thing when my parents were so good together? Maybe it's
that silly offspring rebellion thing -- to not do what your parents have done.
But, somehow, I don't think so. How could you not want a good thing like that?
Maybe.. .maybe I'm scared of not being able to live up to my parents, not being
able to understand what they had. Maybe I'm just fucking scared of failing and
that's all there is to it and that's about as human as you can get and dammit
I'm going.</P>
<HR>

<P> &lt;Later Later Later&gt;</P>

<P> Okay, here's what happened:</P>

<P> I walked out into the family room. Robin was lying on the couch, rolling
the hockey puck between her hands and staring at the ceiling.</P>

<P> &quot;Quarter for your thoughts,&quot; I said.</P>

<P> She jumped a little, dropping the heavy rubber disc on her chest. &quot;Hi,&quot;
she sang. &quot;Did you finish your, umm, thingie on the computers?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Sorta,&quot; I said, sitting in a chair next to the couch, near her
head.</P>

<P> &quot;You didn't tell me Wayne signed this thing. Look, look at this,&quot;
she showed me the puck and I nodded. &quot;Oh,&quot; she fluttered, &quot;I'll
treasure it forever.&quot; She clutched it to her chest dramatically.</P>

<P> &quot;Well.. actually,&quot; I sighed, &quot;there wasn't any old man, no
Janet Jones, just Wayne having a beer. I saw him and got his signature. He
really is a nice guy you know.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;I know, silly, how you got this thing. Somebody was interviewing him
at the airport on Channel Four. But,&quot; Robin looked down at the puck and
smiled, &quot;that's why you're Alex and he's Wayne and --&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;And why Alex would be honored, touched and the happiest man alive for
you to be Missus Alex.&quot; The ring box, open, appeared like magic in front of
her lovely face. &quot;Robin, will you marry me?&quot;</P>
<HR>

<P> And that's the tale folks. Robin said yes, of course, and she thought I
should stick this end thingie in just in case.. .well, whatever. She found the
legal pad under the </P>

<P> bed after the wedding and honeymoon and now.. well, now, all I can say is
that things are good. And yes, the third person to know Robin said yes, and that
I asked the question, was my mother. And yes, she was very, very happy.</P>

<HR>
<P><EM><FONT SIZE="-1">Note: Just because I know someone named Robyn and because the person in
the story bears some resemblance to me doesn't mean I'm going to hook up with
that or any other Robin. It's just a story!</FONT></EM></P>
