[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Fiction: Two Percent' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Two Percent</H1>

<P>I'd never been so damned angry at Jerome before.</P>

<P> &quot;Goddammit, Silver, I know you can do better work than this! My two
year-old daughter can do better work than this! Give me something by Monday
morning or you're out of here! For good!&quot;</P>

<P> Then he looked at me calmly, coolly, silently, and left my office. I sighed
heavily and sat back down in my chair to the hiss of the leather cushioning. I
didn't mean to get so mad at him but he just sat there, not saying anything, and
it was like talking to a brick wall. He had to hear me, although now I'm sure he
did anyway, so I yelled louder, waved my hands around. I'm sure my face was
turning that shade of red that scares people, makes them think I'm going to go
into apoplectic seizures at any second. I think a few people wouldn't mind that.
More than a few, even.</P>

<P> It was not even a difficult campaign I assigned to him. Hamburgers.
Hamburgers from a little chain called Burger Gnome with about 13 stores
scattered throughout southern Virginia and North Carolina. Burger Gnome. What
genius thought of that name?</P>

<P> I buzzed Arlene and told her to hold all my calls. I thought about Jerome,
how much business he'd brought to the agency. I yawned. Fridays were always
slow, so it wasn't a difficult decision to lean back, lock my fingers behind my
head and sleep.</P>
<HR>

<P> The phone was ringing. It wasn't an old phone, one that rang with a ring.
This phone sounded, &quot;wee-doo-wee-doo-wee-doo-wee&quot; loud enough to wake
the damned. Loud enough, even, to wake me. I shook my head and picked it up.</P>

<P> &quot;Hello?&quot; I said, too quickly.</P>

<P> &quot;Henry?&quot; My wife. &quot;Henry, when were you thinking of coming
home? Maybe even before this dinner begins to congeal?&quot; My wife the
comedienne.</P>

<P> &quot;Yes, yes Marianne. I'll be home in, what? In fifteen minutes. Just
working late, missing rush hour.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Okay then. Oh, could you pick up some milk on the way home?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;I'll stop by High's. See you soon.&quot;</P>

<P> My wife and I always argued about milk. She grew up with very strict
parents, parents who never let her drink anything other than skim. My parents,
on the other hand, were both from Indiana and were used to milk a little fresher
than the stuff you get at High's. Later on, when they got older and worried that
their bodies might not like all that milkfat too much, they switched, but by
that time I was already settled in my ways. A die-hard whole milk vitamin D man.</P>

<P> So when she asked me to bring home milk, it was a sort of test. If I
brought home D, I was stubborn. If I brought home skim, I was thoughtful. If I
brought home two percent, she would put the milk in the refrigerator and use it
only for cooking and coffee and drink water with dinner. She said the fat was
bad for Gena, our daughter, but I said it was good for her, that it helped her
grow. I'd say, &quot;I turned out okay, didn't I?&quot; and Marianne would say
the same thing. Back and forth, back and forth.</P>

<P> Mind you, we loved each other, which surprised me whenever I thought about
it. Both my parents were still alive and still married, to each other even. I'd
been married to Marianne for seven years or so and it was still... It was still
good. We went out to dinner once or twice a week. We loved our daughter dearly.
We had arguments, the sign of any healthy relationship, but they were never
symptoms of anything deep and hidden. At least they never seemed to be.</P>

<P> I stood up and stretched. My watch said 7:30 and, despite Marianne's call,
I had the feeling you get when you nap into the evening and believe deep down
that you've slept until the next morning.</P>

<P> Notes and disks went into my briefcase, just on the off chance anything
came to me over the weekend. I clicked off my computer, grabbed my coat and
turned out the light.</P>

<P> When I'd first moved from Ogilvy in New York to form my own agency in D.C.,
I had ideas. Big ideas. I wasn't going to be like those other guys, those
bigwigs I hated so much. But the constraints of running a business bogged me
down and a lot of the time all I could do was go with the flow rather than
direct it. It's difficult to tell people what to do and impose deadlines and
still expect them to be creative and sell anything from hamburgers to face
cream, spicy sausage to hair coloring.</P>

<P> I hit the down arrow for the elevator and waited. My whole body was
comfortably rested, settled. I'd loved napping ever since I was a kid, the
relaxed pleasant feeling afterwards never seemed to change. Relaxation was
something I needed.</P>

<P> The elevator opened and I stepped in, hit the Gi button. Another man was in
there. He looked like a janitor or some type of serviceman. He was balding
prematurely. I'd guessed him to be about 32 or 33. He wore thick glasses and was
overweight and the initials on the left breast of his dirty gray jumpsuit said &quot;C.D.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;You Henry Kurtzmann?&quot; he asked.</P>

<P> &quot;Yes, yes I am. What can I do for you?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;The Henry Kurtzmann who left his ad agency and started his own in
D.C. two years ago?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Yes?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;The same Henry Kurtzmann who was noted in Forbes Magazine a month ago
as being a jewel in America's advertising sword?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Yes?&quot;</P>

<P> The man beamed and extended his hand. &quot;I'm pleased to meet you. My
name is Charles Davis and I'd like to shake your hand.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Well, thank you. Certainly, certainly.&quot; I clasped his hand with
mine and we shook once, twice. I smiled and started to pull my hand back but
Charles Davis held tight. He grinned and grinned, then giggled. His hand
squeezed harder.</P>

<P> &quot;Oww,&quot; I said, &quot;excuse me, but--&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Are you a man, Henry Kurtzmann? Are you a man? Or are you just like
the rest of them?&quot;</P>

<P> The elevator doors opened. I blurted out the beginning of some question but
was clubbed on the back of the head.</P>
<HR>

<P> &quot;--llo? Hello? Anybody home?&quot; Somebody was poking me in the
chest. My head hammered to the rhythm of my heart and even the thought of
opening my eyes made it worse. I did it anyway and still saw darkness. A cloth
was covering my eyes, bound around my head.</P>

<P> In whispers: &quot;Man, what do we do now? He's gonna wake up soon and we
don't have a script now. What are we gonna--?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Shh, shut up. You'll wake him up. Just let me talk, okay?&quot;</P>

<P> Somebody poked me in the chest again. &quot;Hello?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;What do you want?&quot; I tried to sound calm.</P>

<P> &quot;What?&quot; a voice said. I think it was Charles Davis, or whatever
his name was. &quot;What do we want? What <U>else</U> would we want? Why would
we kidnap you?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Kidnap? You want money?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Bingo. Exactamundo. You got it, hoss. We saw the framed article in
your office. Anybody mentioned in Forbes has to be rich, right, JR?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;You got it, CD.&quot; Another voice, definitely not Davis, too high.</P>

<P> &quot;Well guys, I'm, ah, I'm sorry but there's a huge mistake. Did you see
my car out in the garage? It's a Honda. It's a nice Honda but--&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Does it have cruise control?&quot; JR said.</P>

<P> &quot;Excuse me?&quot; I said.</P>

<P> &quot;Did I stutter? I said, does your car have cruise control?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;No, no it doesn't. It's a stick shift.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;What's the speedometer go up to?&quot; Davis said.</P>

<P> &quot;I think, I think it goes to one-ten,&quot; I said.</P>

<P> &quot;Why didn't you buy an American car?&quot; Davis said. I tried to
picture him again. That elevator ride seemed so long ago.</P>

<P> &quot;Why? Well, I never really thought about it. I like Hondas.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Man, we should kill you for that alone,&quot; JR said. &quot;American
trucks are the best in the world. Put a Ford against anything with four wheels,
just do it!&quot;</P>

<P> '~ believe you,&quot; I said. I tried to sound like I cared and forced my
eyes to stay shut, even though the blindfold was there. These guys were talking
about cars. It must be a trick.</P>

<P> &quot;What my friend means to say,&quot; Davis said, &quot;is put a Chevy
against anything on the road, right JR?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;I said, and I do not think I need to repeat myself: put a Ford
against anything on Earth with four wheels and watch it fly.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;No no, JR, you meant to say that Fords eat nothing but Chevy dust,&quot;
Davis said.</P>

<P> &quot;Ford&quot; JR said.</P>

<P> &quot;Chevy,&quot; Davis said.</P>

<P> &quot;Ford!&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Chevy!&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;FORD!&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;CHEVY!&quot;</P>

<P> They continued for several minutes.</P>

<P> I kept calm and thought about what to do. Negotiate, negotiate.</P>

<P> &quot;Guys!&quot; I yelled.</P>

<P> &quot;FORD!&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Guys!&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;<B>CHEVY!</B>&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;GUYS!&quot;</P>

<P> Quiet.</P>

<P> &quot;Guys, guys, all I meant to say is that my car is no Mercedes, you
know?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;You like German cars?&quot; JR asked suspiciously.</P>

<P> &quot;I've never driven one,&quot; I said. &quot;But the point is that
Hondas are worth, what? Fifteen thousand dollars? What kind of money were you
hoping to get for me?&quot; Good, good. Make them think about what they're
doing.</P>

<P> I heard somebody scratch his head and Davis said, &quot;&quot;Well, I don't
know. What say about... what? Two million?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Two million?&quot; I yelled, ripped the cloth from my eyes (it wasn't
so tight, after all) and opened them. These boobs had taken me to the basement
of my own office building! They must have worked for the cleaning company. I was
being kidnapped by the two biggest idiots south of New York.</P>

<P> Davis looked shocked. &quot;Well, yessir. They have Donald Trump in Forbes
Magazine, even Madonna. So...</P>

<P> I sat up and winced at the further headache that being vertical brought on.
I felt around for the lump on the back of my head and massaged it gingerly. I
had been lying on a long wooden table. I moved to the edge so my calves hung
over the side.</P>

<P> &quot;Guys,&quot; I said, &quot;at my current salary, I'll make two million
dollars in about twelve or so years.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Whoo,&quot; JR said, looking at the ground. He looked back up at me.
He was short and skinny and he never seemed to blink. &quot;You want some ice
for that?&quot; he asked, rubbing the back of his head. I nodded and he left the
room.</P>

<P> I set my hands down on the table, looked Davis in the eye and said, &quot;You're
going to have to let me go. You know that.&quot; Authority, be an authority.</P>

<P> &quot;Well...&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Listen, I have a --</P>

<P> JR called from far away, &quot;Chuck.&quot;</P>

<P> Davis (he couldn't have told me his real name earlier, could he?) turned to
the door and barked, &quot;What?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Where's a towel I can put this ice in?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Oh, I don't -- Wait. Look in my locker.&quot;</P>

<P> &lt;pause&gt; &quot;What number is it?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;3821, two down from Dirty George's.&quot; &lt;pause&gt; &quot;Find
it?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Yeah, it's locked.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Okay, the combination is: 68. 19. 38. Got it?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Say it again.&quot;</P>

<P> Louder: &quot;68.&quot; &lt;pause&gt; &quot;19.&quot; &lt;pause&gt; &quot;38.&quot;</P>

<P> After a few seconds: &quot;It won't open.&quot;</P>

<P> Davis looked at me then back out the door. He said, &quot;Okay, I gotta go
open the locker so you give me your word you'll wait here, okay?&quot;</P>

<P> I said, &quot;Wait. What's your real name?&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;I told you already. Charles Davis. Jeez Louise. Now promise.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;I promise.&quot;</P>

<P> &quot;Good.&quot; Charles Davis left the room. I looked at my watch. Barely
fifteen minutes had passed since I'd last looked at it, back in the office. I
opened my briefcase -- they hadn't even rifled through it -- then checked for my
wallet. It was there too, money, credit cards, everything. Whole as ever. I
scribbled a note telling JR and Charles Davis to see me in my office first thing
Monday morning, dropped it on the table and left with my briefcase and coat. I
got in my Honda and drove straight home.</P>

<P> After I closed the door and hung up my coat, I kissed Gena, all set up in
her high chair, on her pretty little forehead and said to Marianne, &quot;Honey,
let's both drink water tonight.&quot;</P>

<HR>
<P ALIGHT="RIGHT"><EM>Last Revision: 18 March 1991</EM></P>
