[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Fiction: Plumb Useless' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Plumb Useless</H1>

<P>&quot;What do you want me to say?&quot; I asked her. &quot;What do you want
me to do?&quot; She only glared &#151; not even at my eyes but just above them,
icily ignoring my panic.</P>

<P>&quot;If I could do it all over again, if I could have the same choices, I
wouldn't do it. You have to know that. It was a huge, colossal mistake and I'll
never make it as long as I live. You know that; I know you know that.&quot; I
was drowning. Fast.</P>

<P>&quot;How do I know?&quot; she asked, far too gently, speaking for the first
time since this whole thing started. I saw a life raft but played dumb anyway.</P>

<P>&quot;Know?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;How do I know you won't fuck one of my best friends again?&quot; She
said fuck like she would say toaster or freezer. Appliances have no emotion. My
raft was instantly peppered with holes, sinking fast.</P>

<P>&quot;I don't know,&quot; I admitted. I really didn't. &quot;I don't know. I
guess all you can do is trust me.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Trust? No, I've already done that..&quot; She heaved me a boulder
instead of a preserver.</P>

<P>&quot;No, you'll have to earn that back. I can't just give it away like that
again, not after Karen.&quot; I winced. The first time you hear your
accomplice's name from your lover's lips is like hearing you have a tiny pecker
&#151; from your mother.</P>

<P>&quot;No,&quot; she continued, &quot;it's going to require some sort of
tangible commitment. The only way I could be sure of your activities would be to
castrate you, but I can't do that. I like you, some.&quot; She smiled at me,
demure, and for a moment, a wonderful but tiny moment, I thought she would
forgive me. Unconditionally!</P>

<P>It wouldn't have been so out of line for her to do so. Honestly. It only
happened once: Karen and I were both drunk while Renee slept soundly several
hundred miles away, and things happen. Things always happen.</P>

<P>I'd told Renee that it wasn't even good sex, but it was absolutely fantastic
sex. I'd lusted after Karen for the better part of a year and when the
opportunity came up I couldn't resist. Neither of us could. I thought lying to
Renee about this &#151; seeming forthright by bringing it up directly, honestly &#151;
would make it better somehow.</P>

<P>So, with that sneaky smile still on her face, Renee said, &quot;I'll take a
finger instead.&quot;</P>

<P>I burst out laughing. A finger! I laughed so hard I felt stoned. Nothing
made sense, not even the color brown. Renee loved brown.</P>

<P>&quot;I'm serious,&quot; she said, her smile turned straight. &quot;Cut off
a finger and I'll know you love me. Cut off a finger and I'll know I can trust
you. Cut off a finger and I'll forget you fucked Karen and we can go on like we
were before.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;You're serious?&quot;</P>

<P>She nodded, silent.</P>

<P>I sputtered as many buts as a teacher's convention. She just kept nodding.</P>

<P>&quot;What about a substantial cash payment?&quot; I joked, trying to
lighten things up.</P>

<P>Her eyes narrowed. &quot;You think you can buy me? Like I'm a whore?&quot;</P>

<P>Oops. When women think you're comparing them to a whore, you might as well
quit. Take the bullet and do it with grace. Only weenies try to explain
themselves.</P>

<P>&quot;I was only joking,&quot; I tried to explain.</P>

<P>&quot;You fucked my best friend!&quot; she yelled.  &quot;You didn't just
fuck her, you lied to me about it until you couldn't weasel out anymore. And
then you try to make everything okay with your see- through, 'It was no fun'
story. And now all you can do is joke?&quot; She punched at the door with an
angry index finger. &quot;Out. Now!&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;But...&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;No buts, no nothing. I want a finger in two days or don't bother
looking at me, talking to me or even thinking about me ever again.&quot;</P>

<P>As I was shoved out the door, a thought. &quot;Wait!&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;What?&quot; Exasperated. This was my last chance.</P>

<P>&quot;Which finger?&quot; I fanned them before her eyes. Maybe seeing them
would soften her up.</P>

<P>The anger in her face flushed away. Like that. &quot;Any one you want,&quot;
she said quietly. &quot;Just do it by four o'clock Thursday.&quot; She closed
the door and easily slid the deadbolt into place without a single ounce of
panic.</P>
<HR WIDTH="50%" ALIGN="CENTER">

<P>&quot;She can't be serious,&quot; Mark said. He worked with me at the studio
and we were chewing on lunch. I needed to talk to someone about this. Maybe it
wasn't as crazy as it seemed. Maybe people did it all the time.</P>

<P>&quot;She is. Totally.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Don't tell me you're thinking about actually doing it?&quot;</P>

<P>I nodded, taking a bite of my ham and mustard sandwich. Okay, so maybe
people don't often ask a loved one to mutilate themselves.</P>

<P>&quot;What? No woman who loved you would ask you to do away with a digit. It
just doesn't happen.&quot; Mark's fingers were long and delicate and reminded me
of Virginia Slims cigarettes.</P>

<P>&quot;It is happening. You know Renee and I never had a normal relationship.&quot;</P>

<P>A memory spread over his face and he stood up. &quot;Giddy-up!&quot; he
cried, hands holding an imaginary bridle in front of him while he hopped up and
down.</P>

<P>&quot;Right,&quot; I muttered. Why did I ever tell him about the horse
thing? Everyone I've told wants to slap a saddle on me.</P>

<P>&quot;Maybe this was a bad idea,&quot; I said. &quot;I can deal with it by
myself.&quot; I got up to leave.</P>

<P>Mark clicked into dramatic, put his hand on my shoulder and sat us both
down. &quot;Have you really thought everything through? What's going to happen
when you're both fifty? The finger thing will always be there, haunting you
both.&quot;</P>

<P>I glared at him. &quot;And you don't think me fucking her best friend will
haunt us?&quot;</P>

<P>Mark looked at my eyes. &quot;But that's different. Memories, even awful
shitty ones, fade over time. You'll always have a blank where your finger should
be. Every time you shake someone's hand or wave goodbye that emptiness will be
dogging you. Besides, how will you draw?&quot;</P>

<P>Both Mark and I drew technical graphics for science textbooks. His specialty
was astronomy and physics, mine biology. We were also both right-handed.</P>

<P>&quot;Easy,&quot; I said, &quot;just take something off the left hand.&quot;
I wiggled my left hand's fingers to show how little they meant. &quot;And
anyway, it's not like we're artistes or anything, unless monsieur forgot his
beret today?&quot; I raised my eyebrows at him, a little dare. Mark was a
relative newcomer and still thought of this job as a way station until his
paintings were discovered by someone who meant something. He'd learn better.</P>

<P>Mark grunted, brushed away an imaginary fly. &quot;But do you love her that
much?&quot; He spooned some more chunky Chinese-smelling stuff in his mouth.</P>

<P>Hesitation. &quot;Yes,&quot; I answered. Then: &quot;Yes,&quot; more firmly.</P>

<P>&quot;You sure?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;My sun rises and sets with her.&quot; A line from a movie I'd seen a
few years ago. Mark didn't see many movies (too busy painting he said; yeah,
right) so it would probably slide. With anyone else, I don't know what I would
have said. Movie lines are like canned emotion, as long as you can remember them
right. I had enough remembered lines to get through a nuclear winter.</P>

<P>&quot;Seems like you've already made up your mind,&quot; he said, clearly
impressed by my sentiment. &quot;Why talk to me? Just get it over with.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;You know how when you're with someone you have a separate world
together? One with a different way of talking and thinking about everyone and
everything? One that has its own logic, however flip-floppy it might be?&quot;
Mark slightly bobbed his head in agreement. &quot;I was afraid this would be one
of those deeds that at the time seemed entirely logical but six months later,
I'd look at my hand and say, 'What the fuck was I thinking?'&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;I understand. But are you really, really sure? Shit, I know I'd never
do it. And you're a good looking guy, you could get lots of women. What if you
and Renee don't work out?&quot; I shook my head and opened my yap to speak but
he held up a bony finger and continued. &quot;I know you don't think it will
happen now, but what about two years from now? Five years?&quot; He took a big
slug of root beer and belched through his fist.</P>

<P>&quot;Yeah, I have.&quot; Mostly true. All I knew was that I didn't want it
to be my fault that Renee and I broke up. We were too good together and if it
were my fault I'd always ask myself what if. Especially if I wound up an old man
with some dog, happy as a clam because I'd forgotten what good was. What if what
if.</P>

<P>&quot;Well, what if you do it again? What if ten years from now you pork her
new best friend? Is she going to ask for another finger? Or something worse?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;I know it seems like a finger is a big price for one little fuck up,
but it's my finger. And besides,&quot; I shrugged, &quot;if we split up, at
least I've got a good drinking story to tell all those women interested in my
good looking self.&quot; I laughed and, after shaking his head in disbelief,
Mark joined in. I finished my bag of Fritos and we went back to work.</P>
<HR WIDTH="50%" ALIGN="CENTER">

<P>&quot;So how many fingers do you actually use?&quot; I asked the bartender.</P>

<P>&quot;Depends,&quot; he muttered.</P>

<P>&quot;On what?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;On what you do.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Well, what about you? If you had to make a choice, which finger would
you have removed?&quot;</P>

<P>He peered at me under crazy thick eyebrows. &quot;Why?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Why not?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Why do I have to make a choice?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;It's hypothetical,&quot; I assured him. I'm not sure why I liked going
to that bar. The bartender was the stingiest person I'd ever met: money,
information, words, didn't matter.</P>

<P>&quot;You sure?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Sure.&quot; Did he think I had a butcher's knife in my coat?</P>

<P>He pondered a moment, scratched his balding head and looked down at his
hands, touching a thumb to the dingy calloused pad of each finger like he was
counting.</P>

<P>&quot;This one,&quot; he said, holding out his lefthand ring finger with his
right thumb and index finger. All of his stubby fingers had tiny, chewed nails.
I wondered how the guy held those big bottles of liquor.</P>

<P>&quot;Why?&quot; I asked.</P>

<P>&quot;Why not?&quot; he said suspiciously, bringing his hands back into his
area of responsibility.</P>

<P>&quot;No, I just want to know your reasoning. Why did you pick that one?&quot;
I drained the last of my beer and motioned for another.</P>

<P>&quot;'Cause I need the others. This one's plumb useless.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Don't you have rings to put on there?&quot;</P>

<P>He shook his head. &quot;I hate women.&quot; He clapped my beer to the bar,
went over to a stack of wet glasses and began drying, his well of conversation
apparently sucked clean. Bartenders are never the fountains of wisdom you see in
movies or read in books. </P>

<P>After talking with Mark, I still had doubts but as the day passed it was
easier to think of myself as nine-fingered Jeff. And, despite how harsh it
sounded, a finger was getting off pretty easy. Some guys, they fuck up like that
and have to spend the rest of their lives in a pussy-whipped state of
contrition. No way, not me.</P>

<P>My problem now was which finger to dump. I'd already ruled out all my right
hand fingers since I draw, and my thumb, index and middle of my left. Only two
remained, and I wasn't sure how to choose. I couldn't ask Mark or anyone else I
knew for advice because it would always be a serious thing between us: my blame
for any bad advice could be lurking behind any phrase and gesture of mine for
the rest of the time we'd know each other. So, a stranger.</P>

<P>Another beer down, I thought I'd ask the bartender one more question. &quot;How
would you go about chopping off a finger?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;You get the hell out of here!&quot; he barked, hiding his hands behind
his back and gesturing wildly with his head at the door. But as the door swung
shut behind me, I knew how to do it.</P>
<HR WIDTH="50%" ALIGN="CENTER">

<P>Every office has one: the industrial paper cutter. We were no exception.
Because we used it so often to trim bleeds off artwork and camera-ready pages it
was in excellent shape. No oiling or sharpening needed.</P>

<P>I'd picked up everything necessary at a strip mall a few blocks away. Strip
of leather, whiskey (portable courage, a quarter gone already), a mallet and
stuff to wrap it up afterward: a couple towels, gauze and tape. How much could a
finger bleed, anyway?</P>

<P>Despite the bartender's semi-lucid case for the lefthand ring finger, the
pinky was going down. It's tougher to explain the ring finger's absence. The
pinky, however, was always getting into trouble. And it looked so stupid
sticking out from a tea cup. (Never mind that I don't drink tea.)</P>

<P>I pulled on the whiskey a couple more times and set everything up. Removed
the safety guard from the cutter; lots of ice in a cooler; big towel under the
paper cutter to catch the offending finger; little towel nearby to immediately
wrap up the hand; gauze laid out and tape pre- cut on the edge of the counter.</P>

<P>I studied the pinky for the last time. Stupid, useless, ugly. A tiny scar
snaked up from the top of my hand about halfway to the first knuckle from a shot
glass I was washing that happened to be broken. The more I studied the finger,
the more it had to go. It made more and more sense. Maybe I could start a whole
new trend, be the Jack Kevorkian of unwanted fingers. I poured a few dribbles of
whiskey into its cap and dipped my finger in it, As I traced my lips with the
finger I heard Karen moaning for more, saw myself sliding in and out. Time to
erase the past.</P>

<P>First, the mallet. A couple well-placed swings and that finger was
shattered. No need to cut through bone. And lopping it off wouldn't be as
painful since it already hurt so fucking much. (Joke: &quot;Why is that guy
bashing your noggin with a hammer?&quot; &quot;Because it feels so good when he
stops.&quot;)</P>

<P>Deep drag of whiskey, drained now. Leather in mouth. Hand in place on its
backside, the other fingers flailed to get away: they knew what was coming to
their brother. Bite down. Eyes open! One slice and bam! There it was. Wrap wrap
wrap. Lots of ice. Unbelievable, the finger on the towel. Looked so small.</P>

<P>Went pretty smooth, considering. Good thing I lived so close.</P>
<HR WIDTH="50%" ALIGN="CENTER">

<P>My mom was a doctor and she understood that being comfortably numb from time
to time was not a bad thing. Long as you don't get hooked, she'd say. So I had
an ample supply of Percodans around. Sweet sleep for 18 hours. She's a good mom.</P>

<P>In flashes of wake I had enough sense in my head to change the dressing. It
looked to be healing okay. I suppose it would have been better to stitch it
closed, but I could take care of it in a couple of weeks if necessary. I was
also gulping penicillin like green Bam-Bams.</P>

<P>Foggy thoughts kept drifting toward Renee, all of them ending with this:
what if she didn't think I'd actually go through with it?</P>
<HR WIDTH="50%" ALIGN="CENTER">

<P>Two days after I cut off my pinky for love, I knocked on her door. My left
hand was still bandaged but it wasn't the bulky club fist mass it had been, more
like a trimmed down version of my right hand with a little form-fitting white
overcoat.</P>

<P>She opened the door, surprised. &quot;What are you doing here?&quot;</P>

<P>I held up my left hand. &quot;Can I come in?&quot; Her mouth made a shallow
O and she nodded, opened the door just enough and walked into the living room. I
eased the door shut, careful not to make a sound and crack the eggshell silence
we'd already hatched. </P>

<P>This did not look good. I expected that at the sight of my hand she'd throw
her arms around me and kiss me and tell me she'd already forgotten about me and
Karen; that she was so sorry she made me chop off my finger. And just like that
I'd go from the leashed to the walker. My forgiveness would be necessary to her.</P>

<P>She sat on the couch and looked up at me. &quot;I can't believe you,&quot;
she said.</P>

<P>&quot;What?&quot; I should have stood over her during this but I needed at
least a couple seconds to think. So I pulled a chair in from the kitchen table
in the next room and sat directly across from her. &quot;Here I am, just like
you said, one finger shy by the deadline.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;You're kidding, right?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;You don't believe me? Want to see?&quot; I motioned with my right hand
as if to pull off the dressing, but I didn't touch. It still hurt like anything
because I didn't want to be fuzzy muddled with drugs for this.</P>

<P>&quot;Please don't. This isn't the time to show off your scars.&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Jealous?&quot; I jabbed. Too hard.</P>

<P>She just looked at me and, with her hands at her sides, pushed down at the
sofa as if she were a gymnast trying to raise herself off the balance beam. I'd
seen this before. It meant she was counting backward from ten in her head
because either she didn't know what to say or knew what to say but wanted to
make it come out exactly right. Another bad sign.</P>

<P>&quot;How could you possibly think that I would ever forgive you? How could
you possibly think that a finger could compare with what you did?&quot;</P>

<P>Oh shit. &quot;But you said--&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;If you hadn't cut off a finger, I'd assume you were playing some
stupid game. Since you did, I'm going on the assumption that you're just plain
ignorant. Do you remember what you said after you told me you loved me for the
first time? After we made love for the first time? If you don't, just be quiet.&quot;</P>

<P>I opened my mouth to verbally fidget, but thought the better of it and
remained silent.</P>

<P>&quot;That's what I thought. Do you remember that it was after we made love
for the first time?&quot; I sat still, trying to put my life on furious rewind
and go back to that night; all I could hit was pause. </P>

<P>She went on, &quot;You had such a goofy boy face on, like you'd just
discovered the whole world was your playground, and you looked me right in the
eyes,&quot; she closed them, getting the words precise. &quot;You looked me deep
in the eyes and you said, 'As long as I live I'll never do anything to hurt
you.' Remember that?&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;But that was--&quot;</P>

<P>&quot;Words matter, Jeff. Words matter. But deeds count.&quot; He put her
forehead in her hands and took a few deep breaths, then picked herself up and
looked back at me, even fiercer. &quot;And you've showed me that you don't
really give a shit about either. I pity you Jeff, I really do. But not enough to
take you back. I just don't have any use for you any more.&quot;</P>

<P>She stood up and walked slowly into the kitchen, busying herself with
whatever she was doing before I came in. And I just sat there, dumbfounded, in
this apartment I knew so well, surrounded by the domestic sounds of the woman
who I thought loved me more than anything. After a while, I slowly got up and
left, to what I wasn't sure. I accidentally/on purpose kicked over a plant as I
went. I think it was some sort of cactus.</P>

<P ALIGN="RIGHT"><EM>Last revision: November 1996</EM></P>

