[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Working with other folks' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">October 9, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>Working with other folks</h1>

<p>Worked in Germany all last week, really the first time
I'd worked extensively with someone around my level
technically. Great, great experience. On a basic level it's
just closing the normal feedback loop for discussion, but
it's much more than that. You establish a sort of shorthand
about certain things so that discussions about them can be
both very potent and very short. This might seem really
basic and it's something that happens whenever you spend a
good deal of time with someone, but I'd only really
experienced this previously in a social setting or a
non-technical work setting.

<p>This has the unfortunate side-effect that I feel quite
deprived now working at home by myself. The next few weeks
are going to be a serious PITA.

<p>I need to get a contract finished up in the next few
days, but then I should be able to put some cool changes
into both OpenInteract and SPOPS and <b>really</b> release
them under the Artistic/GPL. (They're available now, but
only if you know where to look. Don't do that just yet :)

<p>Hopefully we'll be able to convince our managers that
working together like this for a week at a time pays off
handsomely in the quality (and quantity) of work done as
well as for generating new ideas. Next time, he comes here
though :)

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=25">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: programming -->
