[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'XMLC works ok, Ant is great' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">January 11, 2001</span>
</p>
<h1>XMLC works ok, Ant is great</h1>

<p><a href="http://xmlc.enhydra.org/">XMLC</a> is working 
fine now. The error message I got was quite cryptic, but 
once I figured it out it wasn't so bad. Everything (Tomcat, 
JBoss, XMLC) was using its own XML parser, but the XMLC one 
was getting "buried" in the classpath. Once I put the <a 
href="http://xml.apache.org/xerces/">Xerces</a> parser 
sufficiently early in the cp, everything worked fine. 
(Frustrating, tho.)

<p>It doesn't seem as if anyone on here is working on it, 
but <a href="http://jakarta.apache.org/ant/">Ant</a> (in the 
Apache Jakarta project) is great! It's a pure Java 
replacement for <tt>make</tt> and is very easy to extend 
with new tasks. I was able to dope out the interface, create 
a new task (concatenating files/messages) and learn the 
basics of Java file IO in a relatively short time. (Hey, I 
hadn't had to deal directly with files yet!)

<p>I recently rewrote box handling for OpenInteract -- much 
easier now and I implemented a standard box interface on a 
per-theme basis. I'll probably go back down to Washington 
for another training session in a couple of weeks.

<p>And I've been at my current job long enough that I now 
have a looming deadline. Long days and nights await...

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=36">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: java -->
