[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Movies: Fearless' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Fearless</H1>

<P><STRONG>Synopsis</STRONG>

<P>Jeff Bridges survives a plane crash and changes his life and the lives of
others.

<P><STRONG>Cast</STRONG></P>

<P>Jeff Bridges, Rosie Perez, Isabella Rosselinni, Tom Hulce, John Turturro

<P><STRONG>Director</STRONG></P>

<P>Peter Weir</P>

<P>Tons of information from <A HREF="http://www.imdb.com/Title?0106881">imdb</A></P>

<P><STRONG>Thoughts</STRONG></P>

<P>Movies with airplane crashes always, <EM>always</EM>, have the crash within
either the first 15 minutes or the last 5 minutes. <EM>Fearless</EM> opens up
in a cornfield. Slowly, you see smoke. The din of tears and fire and catastrophe
cacophony slowly fills your ears and you realize, after seeing Jeff Bridges with
a blank stare carry a baby through the cornfield to charred open ground with
firefighters and people with black smears on their faces crossing themselves,
that this is a plane wreck.</P>

<P>At first I thought it was a dream sequence, that any second we would see
Bridges bolt up from sleep in a room shrouded in blue, breathing heavily. His
wife would murmur, &quot;What is it?&quot; and his response would determine the
rest of the movie, which, I thought, was about dealing with being one of only
two survivors of a plane crash. (The other being Rosie Perez.)</P>

<P>Fortunately, I didn't read the reviews of this movie too closely. (Which is
generally a good policy.) The movie is nothing like that. It's one of a few
movies I've seen that I had no idea of the ending. About 95% of the movies you
see, you know exactly what's going to happen, it's just a matter of how you're
going to get there. I knew, for instance, that by the end of <EM>City Hall</EM>
the idealistic-young-go-getter (John Cusack) would be speaking to the 
elder-politician-man-of-the-people (Al Pacino) not as a proteg&eacute;, but as
an equal, if not a superior. We don't go to see surprise endings of action
movies, we go to see the effects and witty repartee it takes to get there.
(Besides, Hollywood doesn't make action movies with surprise endings.)</P>

<P><EM>Fearless</EM> is, in essence, about the aftermath of the crash and the
second chance Bridges is given. He is invulnerable and has to believe he can die
to actually die. But by the last 15 minutes, when I realized that it would have
to be ending soon, I didn't realize whether Bridges would choose to live or
choose to die. The whole film was building up to this, you could feel it, and
you had a good idea of how it would happen, but you didn't know what his choice
would be.</P>

<P>The whole movie centers around Bridges's character, and he was just amazing
in this movie. I can't think of anyone else who could have played the character
as well, with as much subtletly and raw honesty, as Bridges. You find out fairly
early on that his character, Max Stein, &quot;saved&quot; a number of the
passengers who made it off the plane. How did he save them? You have no idea at
the time, these things are only progressively revealed in Max's dreams
throughout the film. (The fact that he doesn't want to talk about it also tells
you a great deal about the change his character went through.) It turns out that
his calm, cool voice led them all safely off the plane once it was on the ground
when most, if not all of them would have gone the other direction and been
engulfed by flames.</P>

<P>It turns out, however, that he <EM>thought</EM> he was leading them to
death, to heaven, to a better place than the terra firma of real life. That's
why he was so calm, because he was going to a better place and he wanted to
bring everyone along with him.</P

><P>You can tell the mark of a good actor, and a good story, when he does things
that in real life would be absolutely insane but within the bounds of the movie
it makes perfect sense. <EM>Fearless</EM> is very much set in the real world,
so Max's strange behavior is that much stranger. For instance, Rosie Perez is
stuck in the past because of the guilt she feels over having lost her child
while she survived. We finally learn that Perez was holding her baby on her lap
when the plane crashed and believes that if she could have held on tighter, her
baby would be alive.</P>

<P>When he finds out Perez's belief, he briefly tries to convince her as you
and I would, by talking. He quickly realizes that this won't work, then his eyes
brighten: an idea! He goes to the back of the car and gets a toolbox and empties
it. He sits Perez in the front seat and thrusts the empty toolbox in her hands.
&quot;This is your baby,&quot; he says, calmly and coolly. He runs around to the
other side of the car, a brand new Volvo, and starts it up. He drives in a large
circle, then speeds up toward a wall. &quot;Hold on!&quot; he yells repeatedly
at Perez, &quot;That's your baby! Hold on to your baby!&quot; She cries and
clutches onto the toolbox with all her might.</P>

<P>The car crashes into the wall and the toolbox, of course, is jolted out of
Perez's hands and through the windshield. She believes!</P>

<P>Within the confines of the movie, this scene works wonderfully. It's
perfectly logical: Max must help this person, the only way to help her is to
show her, the only way to show her is to crash the car into a wall. Isabella
Rossellini represents the real world, in this case, and calls Max insane. (He
winds up in the hospital as a result of injuries sustained during the crash.)</P>

<P>There's a million other things I could bring up about <EM>Fearless</EM>,
but I really urge you to see it for yourself if you haven't yet. It's a magical
movie, affirming life while reminding us how fragile it truly is. See it.</P>

