[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Movies: Heat' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Heat</H1>

<P><STRONG>Synopsis</STRONG></P>

<P>Robert DeNiro (bad guy) and Al Pacino (good guy) face off with assorted
others accompanying them.

<P><STRONG>Cast</STRONG></P>

<P>Al Pacino, Robert DeNiro, Val Kilmer, Ashley Judd, Wes Study, Ted Levine,
Jon Voight, Natalie Portman</P>

<P><STRONG>Director</STRONG></P>

<P>Michael Mann</P>

<P>Tons of information from <A HREF="http://www.imdb.com/Title?0113277">imdb</A></P>


<P><STRONG>Words</STRONG></P>

<P><EM>Heat</EM> is one of the most intense movies I've ever seen. It's also
one of the best. While it weighs in at nearly three hours you'd never know it.
It moves fluidly among its storylines, painting full and rich pictures of all
its main characters and putting them in situations that, except for the guns and
crime, anyone else might get into. It moves among groin-clenching action and
tense personal situations with the ease of a fratboy elbowing his way to another
bar.</P>

<P>At its heart, <EM>Heat</EM> is a cops and robbers movie, plain and simple.
As in all cops and robbers movies, you've got one lead cop (Al Pacino) and one
lead robber (Robert DeNiro) who, as in many of today's crime movies, are two
sides of the same coin. How many times have you heard this line: &quot;If you do
x, you'll be just like them&quot; x being something bad like killing someone.</P>

<P>The x in <EM>Heat</EM> is devotion. None of the women in Heat are devoted
like the two main characters are. (Women in Michael Mann movies usually get
short shrift, but he's in pretty good company because very few directors make
decent women characters.) One of the reasons the scene with the two of them in
the diner is so talked about is that their characters are so damned devoted to
what they do. No apologies asked, none given. It's only a movie like this with
performances like these where a cop could say, &quot;If it comes to it, I will
put you down.&quot; and sound remotely believable. (Think I'm wrong? Picture
Arnold saying something like that. Picture Jim Belushi or Jamie Lee Curtis. Even
Eddie Murphy.) Al Pacino saying it sounds <STRONG>entirely</STRONG> believable.</P>

<P>However, I will say for Mann that he knows how to film an intimate scene
with two people. Don't believe you can see two people making love without
nudity? Check out Heat's opening scene, where Pacino and his wife explore bodies
as if introduced to them for the first time. (In fact, he did this almost too
well: the first time I saw the film I thought they were only recently lovers and
was confused for a while by their relationship.)</P>

<P>Later, there are good moments between DeNiro and Edie. One of the
characteristics I admire most about a film is when it takes something absolutely
real and makes it even realer. I think it might be more difficult to create a
tender moment between two people, to muster up everything necessary for that
awkward moment when someone's thinking of the perfect thing to say lest the
moment never be repeated, than to film a smash-em-up scene with Bruce Willis and
hordes of Aryan terrorists. </P>

<P>I recently saw The Brothers McMullen and I think what drew people to it was
not the plot (toilet paper thin) but rather the skillful interplay, writing and
acting, between the sexes. We love movies like The Philadelphia Story because of
the lightning fast witty banter among James Stewart, Katherine Hepburn and Cary
Grant, but people don't really talk like that. Not that such a well-made movie
wouldn't be popular today, but it's rare to see someone even attempt to create
such an atmosphere, much less do it skillfully.</P>

<P>What this does is emphasize the second point about Heat: loneliness.
Loneliness and devotion, a good pair, eh? Edie is set up as the innocent, the
only innocent, in this film. (Well, the girlfriend of the short-order cook is
also, but she's only on the screen for a total of two or three minutes in the
entire film.) Yet after she finds out who DeNiro is and the horrible things he's
done, she still consents to go to New Zealand with him. Part of it is fear, but
I think the majority of it is loneliness. She's found someone she enjoys being
with and who, seemingly, feels the same about her. The power of loneliness is so
strong that she'll go off to a land she's never seen to be with a man who's done
things she despises. </P>

<P>Other odds and ends:</P>

<UL>
 <LI>While I think she's a great actress, Natalie Portman's character flits in
and out of the plot so often that I'm really not sure why she was there except
to bring Pacino and wife potentially back together near the end. The way this
was handled stuck out so much because the rest of the movie was so tight.</LI>

 <LI>I loved Val Kilmer's line when talking about his wife: &quot;My sun rises
and sets with her.&quot; He said it so simply, so matter of factly, that you
couldn't believe otherwise. That one line went an amazingly long way toward
fleshing out their relationship -- you knew that despite the hard times (which
is basically all we saw), they loved each other with that fierce devotion that
only criminals in the movies can muster.</LI>

 <LI>The line Robert DeNiro says a couple times and from which the movie draws
its name is a good one: &quot;Don't  get attached to anything that you can't
walk away from in 30 seconds when you see the heat around the corner.&quot;
(paraphrased, but close) It's one of those lines that would have been at home in
an old western. It's a deceiving line -- who actually believes this in real
life? Life is <STRONG>about</STRONG> attachments: family, friends, work. Love.
These are what makes life worth living. A friend of mine once said he believed
god was in the relationships between people. I'm still an atheist, but I thought
that a beautiful idea. Although I'm sure some Amway pyramid-schemer is thinking
of it as a new marketing ploy...</LI>

 <LI>This might be the first movie I've seen where Tom Sizemore doesn't play an
asshole or double-crosser.  True, he plays one of the bad guys, but he doesn't
rat them out or fuck up. Although right before he's iced by Pacino he picks up a
little girl to use as a shield so maybe it's just physically impossible for him
to play someone without a huge moral blank space where a concience or loyalty
would be. (Addendum: I recently saw Mulhulland Falls and, while I didn't like
the movie, Sizemore plays a cop -- a good cop -- in it. Maybe he's
diversifying.)</LI>

<LI>I kept expecting Jon Voight's character to pull a double-cross. I'm not
sure why -- he just looked shifty. Maybe what they say is true: all men in
beards look shifty... :)</LI>

</UL>

