[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Movies: Matrix Reloaded' -%]

<p align="center">Lots of spoilers: Do not read this unless you've seen the film!</p>

<h1>Matrix Reloaded</h1>

<p>Lots of info <a href="http://us.imdb.com/Title?0234215">at IMDB</a>.</p>

<p>Since there are so many out there already, this isn't really a
review of the film. Just a place for me to put ideas (many likely
contradictory) when they pop into my head.</p>

<h3>What's real?</h3>

<p>One major destabilizing element is that what we know as the "real
world", to where people get awakened, zion exists, everybody wears
grungy clothes, etc. -- may not be real either. The scene at the end
where Neo zaps the sentinels -- my buddy Frank thinks it was the other
ship that did it, not me -- suggests this. Was it because he'd just
brought Trinity back to life in the matrix? Was it because he was full
of impotent rage at the choices given by the Architect? Who knows? But
his comment, "Something's different...", leads you to think that he's
peering through <b>this</b> Matrix as well.</p>

<p>So why is he in a coma at the end? Did he realize the futility of
his actions in world where he can't tell real from unreal? I
dunno.</p>

<p>Surely the programs behind the Matrix realized that a certain
percentage of people would "wake up" from the dream that is the
Matrix. Why not create a "real real world" Matrix to hold these people
when they get "awakened"? That is, when Morpheus and crew in Matrix1
"interrupt the carrier wave" for Neo, he wakes up from his pod into a
separate Matrix -- instead of being the world as it was toward the end
of the 21st century, it's a "real" world which satisifies the need the
wakers' have for waking in the first place ("splinter in the mind" and
all that).</p>

<p>Why would the Matrix masters allow this? They know there will
always be a certain percentage of people who wake up. Why not have
them wake up into a world with meaning, where they have something
definite to rail against: the Matrix. Otherwise they might simply wake
up again. (Which of course leads to the question: why not just knock
these people off in the first place once they wake up? I dunno.)</p>

<p>Morpheus mentioned early on in the film that they'd awakened as
many people in the past six months as they had in the previous six
years. Maybe the Matrix masters want to have all the anomalies in one
place before they reach a critical mass (which they're working toward)
so they can unplug them all permanently and have the cycle begin
anew.</p>

<h3>Agent Smith</h3>

<p>I haven't been scouring the net for reviews, but I've read very
little speculation about "Agent" Smith, even on <a
href="http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2003/5/15/22352/6060">this hugely
irritating k5 thread</a>. This is fairly disappointing, because I
think Smith (who is technically not an agent anymore) is a central
character in the whole storyline.</p>

<p>Yeah, he's viral, able to create as many copies of himself as
required. And he can also apparently infect avatars as well and make
the jump from the Matrix to the "real real world" Matrix via the "hard
line" transport. The fact that he can make this jump may or may not be
further support that both worlds are in fact the Matrix. You could say
that the "real" world is a Matrix because otherwise it's too bizarre
that a program could just take over the patterns of a human brain.</p>

<p>But you could also say that Smith has been evolving extremely
quickly over the six months that elapsed between <b>Matrix</b> and
<b>Matrix Reloaded</b>. (But then again, the whole notion of time
passing may be an illusion as well... if the "real" world is just part
of the Matrix.) That is, evolving to deal with the complexity and
messiness of humans -- something any good agent should do. Now that I
think of it, the use of the term 'Agent' is interesting: there's
"agent" in the cop sense, and "agent" in terms of the "proxied human"
sense like the crude ones on amazon and elsewhere that look at your
buying and browsing patterns and try to figure out what you
like. Maybe the programs behind the agents had more capabilities to
learn because they had to deal with human ingenuity?</p>

<p>Anyway, this doesn't get to the interesting part: <b>why</b> is
Smith doing what he's doing? It might be simple self-protection: if
the Architect is right then Neo has a choice between destroying the
human race (depriving the Matrix of its energy source -- which itself
might be part of the "real world" Matrix), which will deprive most
programs of energy and life, and resetting the whole cycle, which
might destroy Smith's stimulus for evolution.</p>

<p>That doesn't <b>feel</b> quite right though, so I'm intensely
curious about his motivations and have the idea that he's going to be
a monkey wrench in the whole process, whatever it turns out to be.</p>

<p align="right">2003-May-17</p>

<h3>Not so unique</h3>

<p>Since lots of people in the various <a
href="http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=03/05/17/1436255&mode=nested&tid=188&tid=200&tid=97">slashdot</a>
<a
href="http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=03/05/15/0613212&mode=nested&tid=188&tid=200&tid=97">threads</a>
have thought up the scenario above I don't feel so special. Oh
well. In any case, at least it means I'm not totally off the deep end.

<h3>Other Neos</h3>

<p>The Malvingian (however it's spelled) is supposedly an earlier
version of Neo, an earlier "the One." Supposedly he came to the same
scenario presented by the Architect and picked the door where the
resistance is rebooted. His reward is to be given a priviledged
position in the Matrix, able to create his own programs (like the
orgasmic chocolate cake, like the albino ghost twins).</p>

<p>This leads to other questions: why is he keeping the keymaster?
Clearly the keymaster is an important part in the whole cycle
described by the Architect. So why do the Agents refer to him as "the
exile" in the highway chase scene? Is he another program (like Smith)
that refuses to be turned off? Maybe Neo was supposed to meet the
Architect in another fashion (that is, without the keymaster), after
more time? (That doesn't make sense though: the potential destruction
of Zion is what's bringing all this to a head.) So is the Malvingian
keeping the keymaster to hedge his bets, to ensure that he has a say
in the next cycle?</p>

<p>As an earlier One he has the hindsight to be able to lecture about
whys and causalities -- he assumes the cycle will repeat itself as it
always has. But he seems to have lost his earlier passion for being
<b>human</b> -- he's sterile and angular, taking his pleasure from
random sex (feeding off the results of the orgasmic cake) rather than
love. And his mate (Persephone) wants just a taste of passion from Neo
(who's still human, who still has a smoldering Trinity looking on) for
betraying him. In the earlier iteration, was Persephone in Trinity's
role? That would explain her statement that Neo and Trinity's love is
brilliant but to be short-lived. She assumes Neo will make the same
choice as the Malvinigian, and Neo/Trinity will be relegated to the
same passionless existence that she's currently in. This is another
reason why the dance/sex scene from earlier in the movie is so
important -- we have to know why Neo is different from all the other
iterations. And it all boils down to love...</p>

<p align="right">2003-May-18</p>

<p><a href="http://www.x180.net/Blog/Movies/MatrixReReloaded.html">James</a> saw it a second time. His impression: "It's better the second time." I can't wait.</p>

<p align="right">2003-May-21</p>

<h3>Good discussions</h3>

<p>See <a href="http://www.dynamicobjects.com/d2r/archives/002000.html">Diego's original review</a> and a <a href="http://www.dynamicobjects.com/d2r/archives/002008.html">follow-up</a>, and be sure to read the comments.</p>

<p>Also <a href="http://www.corporatemofo.com/stories/051803matrix.htm">this</a> is by a person more familiar with some of the religious and philosophical inspirations.</p>

<p align="right">2003-May-26</p>

<h3>Is Neo a program?</h3>

<p>It's been mentioned (by <a
href="http://freeroller.net/page/rickard/20030525">Rickard</a>, among
others) that Neo is a program. This is an interesting virtual Pinochio
possibility, but if Neo were a program:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Wouldn't the agents know it?
  <li>Why would the agents bother to 'bug' him in the first episode?
  <li>Wouldn't the agents be able to take him over? (Maybe they can only do this to programs virtualized from real people, maybe Neo's ACLs don't allow it... )
</ul>

<p>On the other hand, it would make a nice parallel with Smith, who
seems to be getting more human...</p>

<p align="right">2003-May-29</p>

<p><a
href="http://webpages.charter.net/btakle/matrix_reloaded.html">This</a>
is a good "textual reading" (author's words) of the film. The flippant
dismissal of alternate theories is a little annoying -- classic
rhetoric: "slashdot is stupid; this argument was on slashdot; this
argument is stupid" -- but still worth a read.</p>

<p align="right">2003-June-1</p>
