[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Movies: Primal Fear' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Primal Fear</H1>

<P><STRONG>Synopsis</STRONG></P>

<P>A high-profile archbishop is brutally murdered in Chicago. To everyone but
high-profile lawyer Martin Vail who represents him, simple Kentucky boy Aaron
Stampler did the deed. Courtroom drama ensues.</P>

<P><STRONG>Director</STRONG></P>
<P> Gregory Hoblit</P>

<P><STRONG>Cast</STRONG></P>
<P>Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Edward Norton, Andre Braugher, John Mahoney,
Alfre Woodard</P>

<P>Tons of information from <A HREF="http://www.imdb.com/Title?0117381">imdb</A></P>

<P><STRONG>>Words</STRONG></P>

<P><STRONG>S P O I L E R   W A R N I N G</STRONG></P>

<BLOCKQUOTE>Below I give away the ending to this film. Primal Fear is one of those
films, like The Crying Game, that the studios make a big hullaballoo about so
reviewers don't give away the secret. Is it worth it? Your call.</BLOCKQUOTE>

<P>It's <STRONG>possible</STRONG> for movies adapted from books to be good --
Stand By Me sticks out in my mind. It's easier, of course, if you haven't read
the book beforehand.</P>

<P>Unfortunately, I read the book beforehand. I liked it -- courtroom thrillers
are a dime a dozen these days, but Diehl has been writing for years and brings
to the novel excellent pacing and a great sense of story. He keeps you
off-balance throughout the book and the main character, Martin Vail, actually
has wit and depth, particularly for one of these books.</P>

<P>The problem with adapting books to the screen is that you can't possibly get
the whole thing in. One of the great characteristics of novels is their depth --
one of the great <EM>potential</EM> characteristics of novels, anyway.
Translating that depth to the screen is very difficult. The scene in the novel
that establishes the main character's fragility has to be skipped because it's
not essential to the plot, so the actor/actress has to do double duty by
bringing that fragility out without mucking up the scenes he/she is in. That's
what makes the job tough, that's why there are so few good actors and actresses.</P>

<P>However, adapting novels that focus more on plot than characters,
particularly those that use complicated plots as many mystery novels and
courtroom thrillers (John Grisham excepted), is nearly impossible. One reason
Stand By Me was successful because the plot was incredibly simple: four kids go
to see a body. Both the novella by Stephen King and the movie focused on the
episodic adventures the four boys had and used them to tell us about them. This
allowed Rob Reiner, and screenwriters Raynold Gideon and Bruce A. Evans, to
remove certain episodes and place more emphasis than King did on others without
fear of really harming the plot. The plot was almost a separate entity. (Maybe
that's pushing it.)</P>

<P>That won't work with Primal Fear, or at least it didn't for me. Even though
I understood the constraints, there were key elements missing that would have
made the film better. For instance, I understand why the character of The Judge
was omitted (a curmudgeon who served as Vail's mentor that hung out at a bar and
kept a diary of horse racing data but never bet a dime) -- he wasn't important
to the plot. It would have been neat to see Wilford Brimley in that role,
particularly since he's lately been playing assholes (The Firm) or bit adventure
movie parts (Hard Target). Robert Prosky would have done well also. </P>

<P>But I don't understand the exclusion of Aaron Stampler's past, particularly
when Tom (played here very well by Andre Braugher) went down to Kentucky and
found out more about him from the teacher whom he seduced during high school and
who warned Tom, &quot;Aaron is smarter than you can imagine.&quot; Vail also
finds out about murders of other altar boys and, because Aaron's deception is so
complete and clever, never suspects that someone truly evil is right under his
nose.</P>

<P>Diehl introduced these elements bit by bit in the novel and balanced the
doubt they created in the reader's mind with the vivid descriptions of Aaron's
transformation to Roy. There were also a number more of them spread out over
time, which made the multiple personality exhibition much more credible and the
ending that much more surprising. (In all honesty, however, I knew that the book
would end that way. What did it for me was the visit to Aaron's old hometown and
the teacher's warning about Aaron's intelligence. It's very rare that I guess
endings of books like that and was very pleased with myself. Ha!)</P>

<P>As for the acting, Richard Gere was very good as Vail. Edward Norton did an
excellent Aaron Stampler. Laura Linney was okay, not exceptional. Everyone else
was in and out so quickly that it didn't really matter. As much as I like John
Mahoney and Andre Braugher, they just weren't in the movie very long.</P>

<P>I thought the director used the ploy of the news reporter teasing out the
<EM>real</EM> Martin Vail once too often. And what the hell was the reporter
doing hanging around Vail after the story was already published?</P>

<P>Plus, and this is a comment about the book also: <EM>Primal Fear</EM> is 
<STRONG>such</STRONG> a cheesy name.</P>
