[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Movies: Silence of the Lambs' -%]

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Silence of the Lambs</H1>

<P><STRONG>Synopsis</STRONG></P>

<P>FBI agent works with brilliant psychopath to find killer.</P>

<P><STRONG>Cast</STRONG></P>

<P>Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn, Anthony Heald, 
Ted Levine. 

<P><STRONG>Director</STRONG></P>

<P>Jonathan Demme</P>

<P><STRONG>Words</STRONG></P>

<P>The last time I talked about this picture with anyone, I was defending it
against charges from <EM>Cosmopolitan</EM> (of all things) that it was &quot;evil.&quot;
Cosmo, in its movie review section, pronounced this film evil and anti-woman
because the main character, Clarice Starling (Foster), has to rely on Hannibal
Lecter to solve the case and advance her career.</P>

<P>Before I begin talking about this amazing movie, let me shred Cosmo's
argument. First, there was every indication that Starling triumphed over
everything the FBI Academy had thrown at her. She was in the top 25 percent of
her class and, in a great opening sequence, was summoned by Jack Crawford (Scott
Glenn), head of the Behavioral Sciences Division, for help on a case. <EM>Before
she ever met Lecter!</EM></P>

<P>Second, Lecter never told her explicitly who the guy was. The dingbat cops
who believed the red herring Lecter fed them looked pretty damn stoopid, didn't
they? But with a little luck and a lot of noodle power, Clarice figured it out
for herself. And Lecter relied on her intelligence to figure out the clues he
fed her.</P>

<P>The relationship between Starling and Lecter is what makes this movie so
great. I think one of the marks of a really good movie is this: read aloud the
lines from the movie and see if they make any sense. If they don't, that means
the movie, particularly the actors/actresses, suspended your sense of disbelief.
For instance, look at a movie like <EM>Soapdish</EM>. Many of the lines in
there are howlers, but the actors and actresses made them work. (Shit, when
you've got people like Robert Downey, Jr., Kevin Kline, Sally Field, Whoopi
Goldberg, Elizabeth Shue and Garry Marshall working for you, we're talking
loaded dice.)</P>

<P>After Clarice explains her memory that gives the movie its title, Lecter
says, &quot;Thank you, Clarice.&quot; His voice trails to a whisper, &quot;Thank
you.&quot; Hopkins makes him so evil throughout the movie -- giving him no
conscience but making him massively intelligent -- that this one moment of
humanity strikes a deep chord. Anthony Hopkins has said he based his portrayal
of Hannibal Lecter partly on James Mason's character in <EM>North by Northwest</EM>.
So often we think of true evil as being represented in a person spiritually
(Damien as the Antichrist in <EM>The Omen</EM> series) or violently (too many
pictures to name). True evil is the cold, calculated commission of pain upon
others to accomplish selfish ends. This pain can come in many forms: a knife
slipped between the ribs, a carefully placed verbal barb that shatters a
person's self-image, a refusal to help others when you're in a position to do
so... Those in a position to do the most pain to the most people are, of course,
those with money or those with power. People like Andrew Carnegie or Oval Faubus
caused more pain than Charles Starkeweather or Ted Bundy could ever dream.
Businessmen and politicians do it in legitimate ways, though, so it's somehow
less evil. Mason, and Hopkins, wrapped all this up in their characters so well.</P>

<P>Of course, after Hannibal's admission of humanity, he in the next scene,
Lecter brutally murders both of the guards in a very powerful scene that relies
on <EM>implied</EM> violence rather than actual violence. That's probably
because the audience wouldn't sit through a cop's head getting bludgeoned a
dozen times with his truncheon, or the skinning of the other cop's face.</P>

<P>One of the things that makes movies great (or awful, depending on your
viewpoint) is that we can see the most awful things on the screen with the
assurance that it didn't actually happen. &quot;Don't worry, honey, that man
wasn't <EM>really</EM> disemboweled by Rambo, those are fake guts.&quot; Demme
could have gone for the total gross-out (and it's surprising he didn't, since he
interned under B-movie king Roger Corman) with the murders of the two guards.
Instead, he makes the scene watchable and unbearable at the same time. We see
Lecter swinging the billy club again and again and again, raising his arm all
the way above his head before bringing it brutally down on the guard's face. We
see small splotches of blood on Lecter's face -- but that's it. Quentin
Tarantino would have drawn out the scene for 10 minutes and played some goofy
50s/60s music in the background. (Which can be interesting if used
appropriately.) Instead, we're treated with another scene that adds to the
incredible suspense in the whole movie. Our imaginations can think up worse
things than the Hollywood SFX factory -- and they do. (I think.)</P>

<P>A lot has been said about the Hopkins portrayal of Hannibal Lecter and I
don't think I need to add any more here. This role basically catapulted the guy
back into the A-1 spotlight. To his credit, he's not taken any similar roles
since (a l&aacute; John Lithgow).</P>

<P>However, I don't think enough has been said about Jodie Foster. Her
character is amazingly strong -- strong enough to take Lecter's barbs and aim
some back, strong enough to tell her boss (Crawford) that he should have acted
better, strong enough to pop a few caps in the main nasty. Thomas Harris has
reportedly been working for the last ten years on the sequel to the novel
Silence of the Lambs (which, if anything, is better than the movie). I hope he
includes Clarice Starling in it.</P>

<P>So, back to the Cosmo article. It came out when the movie was first released
and I was actually going out with the person taking Cosmo's side, so I didn't
see the film for its first few months. It turns out that that argument (which we
probably had five or six times -- a lot for a relationship that lasted
two-and-a-half months) bore the seeds of our breakup. Don't ever let anyone tell
you movies don't affect real life.</P>

<P>Other stuff</P>

<UL>
 <LI>I'm puzzled why the <STRONG>gay community protested</STRONG> this film so
strongly. The serial killer (Ted Levine) is not crazy because he's gay (and he's
not even gay!), he's crazy because he's crazy! Lecter even says so during the
movie: he's pathological, not a simple transsexual. Sexuality is the outlet for
his pathology. I suppose that gay activists assumed people would see Ted Levine
putting on makeup and tugging on his nipple ring and assume he was gay, and
assume further that he was a serial killer because he was gay. Which he wasn't.
The unfortunate matter is, they're probably right. Still, drawing attention to
it is probably the worst thing you could do. Remember when N.O.W. called for a
boycott of American Psycho by Bret Easton Ellis because it was cruel to women?
I'll bet the book sold about 10,000 percent better because of it, and I'm sure
Random House sent a box of Godiva chocolates to N.O.W. HQ that year...</LI>

 <LI>Has <STRONG>Scott Glenn</STRONG> ever been in a boxing movie? I can totally
picture him wailing away on some poor sap who had no idea of the sheer manliness
of that gigantor in the other corner. He was pretty damned bulky in <EM>The
Right Stuff</EM>, although that was 13 years ago, and counting. Still, every
movie in which I've seen Glenn (think: <EM>Silverado</EM> -- great!, <EM>Urban
Cowboy</EM>, <EM>Hunt for Red October</EM>), he's been a rock. The stabilizing
point of the movie. Even though Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery are the main
characters in <EM>Hunt</EM>,  Even in Urban Cowboy where he plays homewrecker,
he never wavers (like that NYC-cowboy Travolta) in his beliefs. He just has an
amazing, unshakable air of authenticity that you can't teach.</LI>

 <LI><STRONG>Popcorn is a very social food.</STRONG> I think tonight's viewing
of <EM>Silence of the Lambs</EM> is the first time I've eaten popcorn alone
since I was a kid. (Movie theaters don't count -- they're inherently social
places.) I don't know if you've ever done this, but I felt pretty damn pathetic.
It might just be this period in my life, the fact that I just need to get used
to living alone. Still, there are a few things about living alone that suck, and
this is one of them. Even though it's awkward with certain people when you both
reach for the same kernel at the same time, eating popcorn is a very
participatory event. The more people the better. Maybe it's the fact that you
can't eat it neatly -- some piece always falls and sticks to your shirt and you
never notice until later. Maybe it's the fact that you can't eat it quietly  --
just try and eat popcorn without crunching. (Stale popcorn and sucking on it
until it dissolves don't count!) In any case, you now see why the Pop Secret
single packages went straight down the toilet, even with the hep and sexy Annie
Potts doing the endorsing. (Personally, I'd buy a stapler if Annie said the
paper just plain liked it better. Yow!)</P>
<P>(FYI: The popcorn I ate tonight was pretty good: ACT II Light. I'm not a
microwave popcorn connoisseur, but I didn't find myself grimacing at the
nuked/charred quality of it.)</LI>
</UL>

<P><STRONG>Perfect gift idea!</STRONG> If anyone is looking for a
birthday/holiday present for me, this video is perfect. It's pretty cheap and
I'll enjoy it for a long, long time.</P>

