[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Dad\'s wedding, meetings' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">August 9, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>Dad's wedding, meetings</h1>

<p>Got back from DC last night. My dad got married over the
weekend, which was... interesting. The wedding went well
enough logistically -- it was outdoors and it didn't rain,
nobody got food poisoning, etc. And I'm happy that my dad is
happy. But I miss my mom, and it's hard to see my dad with
someone else. That will diminish with time, I know, but that
doesn't help right now.

<p>Went to meetings on Monday and Tuesday, almost entirely
good. (One of the clients actually said, "We want to move
all our databases to the web, but we just have so many to
move we haven't been able to do them all. Can you help with
that?" Wow.)

<p>Internally, we discussed the licensing of OpenInteract
but didn't come to a conclusion, which kinda bites. I know
that once we release it (along with SPOPS) we need to have
some support mechanisms already in place, but that might be
fun work, and sourceforge can take care of some of that as
well. 

<p>(Incidentally, Christopher made some <a
href="http://www.intes.net/interact/">nifty web pages</a>
describing OpenInteract from a management POV.)

<p>So, result of all this: Tons o' work for the foreseeable
future -- but who doesn't have that?

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=14">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: oi2; wedding -->
