[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Christmas goodies' -%]

<h1>Christmas goodies</h1>

<ul>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Fahrenheit-Fair-Enough-Telefon-Aviv/dp/B00005RTBV">Fahrenheit
  Fair Enough</a> by Teflon Tel Aviv. Work music, defined as
  "stuff without words that fades into the background so I can
  work." I rarely get to hear non-work music anymore, so lists
  like <a href="http://blog.kirkwinters.com/2009/12/2009-music-review.html">my
  cousin Kirk's</a> make me feel a little out of it. I heard a
  track off this backing a youtube video, but didn't get the CD
  because it was too expensive ($30 or something). Perfect
  gift.</li>

  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Essential-Software-Architecture-Ian-Gorton/dp/3540287132/">Essential
  Software Architecture</a>. Super geeky, but I feel like I
  should be able to describe what our architecture <b>is</b>
  better, and in a common way.</li>
  <li><a href="http://www.amazon.com/Brain-Rules-Principles-Surviving-Thriving/dp/0979777747/">Brain
  Rules</a>. Should provoke one or two blog posts, or at least a
  tweet or two.</li>
</ul>

<p>But it's really about Ella, who got tons of stuff, especially
since her birthday is two days after Christmas. A new dollhouse
with a few rooms full of furniture -- it's detailed at the
playmobil level, but made of wood instead. Very cute. (Assembled
by me on Christmas Eve night, another notch in the dad-experience
belt). An armful of puzzles, which she recently turned on to in a
big way, seemingly overnight. A Diego Rescue Center from Grandma,
picked up by Barb for $10 at a consignment sale a couple months
ago.</p>

<p>She also got <b>loads</b> of Dora and Diego stuff for both
Christmas and her birthday -- books, little people ballerina
Dora, Dora and Perrito (bigger), pajamas (worn already for 24
hours straight), puzzles, even a Dora sudoku book (I'm not quite
sure how that works). This is a downside of having the two
celebrations so close -- she loves Dora and Diego now, but what
about six months from now?  It's a kind of toy bubble, and it's
fed by well-meaning relatives who need a hook ("Dora!"
"Puzzles!") so they know what to get her for presents. I
sympathize; it's not easy buying something for a three year-old
unless you have one of your own.</p>

<p>When you're an adult this happens too. If people know you like
cats you'll get all sorts of things with cats on them -- mugs,
posters, mouse pads, sticky notes, coat hangers, photo frames,
aprons, etc. When he was a pilot my dad's call sign was "Chilly"
-- "Chilly" "Winters", get it? -- so every year he always got a
few things with penguins. But it's mostly junk.</p>

<p>I think the only ways to get around this are to be a jerk:
either demand cash/giftcards, or give people a list of what you
want and insist they stick to it. But then you have the issue of
list coordination, which the Amazon wishlist takes care of
nicely. Another way is to avoid it entirely: tell people you
don't want presents, and you could even couch it in an
environmental/anti-consumerist message.</p>

<p>But the latter isn't an option for a three year-old. So it's
Dora Dora Dora the Explorer this year. Next year?</p>

<!-- Tags: books; music; ella; christmas; holiday  -->

<!--#include virtual="/includes/thread.html" -->
