[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'SPOPS rulesets' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">September 1, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>SPOPS rulesets</h1>

<p><a
href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=15">Earlier</a> I
talked about rulesets in SPOPS, and over the last couple of
days have exploited them for some nifty stuff. Implemented
Yet Another Full Text Search Engine (tm) -- dead simple,
none of the interesting things that DBIx::FullTextSearch
does, but it's database independent (rather than tied to
MySQL) and easy to understand. I like simple, especially in
the beginning and especially with room to grow.

<p>What's cool, though, is the way this works. If you want
an object to be included in the full text search, you simply
specify 'Interact::FullText' in the 'isa' tag of the
configuration file for your class and list the fields you
want to be submitted to the search. (You also need to
specify an english name for your object, how to extract a
brief title from your object [thru a coderef] and a url
fragment on how to display it. But you should already have
those specified those anyway....) That's it.

<p>Every time you create or update an object, the rule for
Interact::FullText gets triggered. You don't need to call
'index' or anything like that -- the rule gets installed
when the sever is started. The rule breaks down the text
object into stemmed words and saves them to the database,
counting up the number of occurrences and associating them
with the object.  Like I said: simple. But we have plenty of
space to improve it, since it's basically a black box.

<p>First public site (<a
href="http://www.transitvote.org/">Transit Vote</a>) is
rolled out now -- I'm sure little bugs will be found with
more usage, but I feel pretty good about it. (also need to
get our 'powered by' logo onto a credits page or
something...)

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=18">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
