[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Ella\'s name getting popular...' -%]

<h1>Ella's name getting popular...</h1>

<p>From <a
href="http://www.kottke.org/remainder/08/07/16088.html">kottke</a> I
just learned about 
<a href="http://www.nametrends.net/">NameTrends</a>, 
a naming visualization tool I'd think primarily used by soon-to-be
parents. Being relatively new I decided to 
<a href="http://nametrends.net/name.php?name=Ella">plugin Ella's name</a>, 
and got a nifty (and hoverable) chart showing that the name's
popularity was on a long, slow decline from the late 1800s, bottoming
out in the 1970s until picking up again in the late 1990s, climbing to
its current #21 rank. (BTW, kudos on the URL-addressable chart.)</p>

<p>This was surprising, to say the least. I have no idea why it picked
up. I can't think of any cultural icons out there named Ella except
Ella Fitzgerald. Was she prominent in the Ken Burns series on Jazz?
Were some of the now-elderly Ellas from the early part of the 20th
century passing away and their grandkids hoping to honor them? Who
knows? There's always a weird tightrope parents are perceived to walk
with naming popularity. Choose too popular a name and you're just one
of the crowd. choose too exotic and you're trying too hard.</p>

<p>

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/cwinters/2605555725/"
title="Ella up high"><img
src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3070/2605555725_06910ae981_m.jpg"
width="160" height="240" alt="Ella up high" align="right" /></a>

But that's the perception, from the outside looking in. I'd bet an
awful lot of people choose names based on an intensely personal
connection, and would've chosen that name no matter what the
popularity. In the weeks leading up to Ella's birth we were still
talking about names, although our universe had narrowed to a handful
at most. Ella was at the top for a girl with Sophie up there too; I
think for a boy Eliot and James were our choices. (Barb might have to
correct me there.)</p>

<p>Neither of the boys' names was personal, but we chose Ella for my
mom. Her name was Pamela, and if she were here she'd have been calling
nearly every day, asking joyfully, "How's my Ellie?" Another
possibility is laying claim to our attic and moving in.</p>

<p>If my mom were here she'd be named something else -- Sophie, or
Zoe, or something pretty and short. Now, of course, I can't think of
her as anything but Ella.</p>

<!-- Tags: ella; name -->