[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Heart on your sleeve' -%]

<h1>Heart on your sleeve</h1>

<p><a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/cwinters/3672551191/"
title="Beautiful girl by Chris Winters, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2465/3672551191_8e8549bcde_m.jpg"
width="160" height="240" border="0" alt="Beautiful girl" 
align="right" /></a></p>

<p>It's said that part of being a parent is wearing your heart on
your sleeve. I couldn't agree more; here's an example.

<p>I'm reading <u><a href="">The Man Who Mistook His Wife For a
Hat</a></u>.[1] On the plane I get to chapter 2, "The Lost
Mariner," primarily about a man who has severe short-term memory
loss and retrograde amnesia. Later he goes over stories from
similar cases. One reference in particular got me thinking:</p>

<blockquote>
...in which a highly intelligent man was unable for some hours to
remember his wife or children, to remember that he had a wife or
children.
</blockquote>

<p>I couldn't stop thinking about such a thing happening to me
permanently, and not recognizing Ella. Not remembering her
growing up and all the little daily incidents that fill me with
joy. And far, far worse, her realizing that <b>I</b> don't
recognize <b>her</b>, how her world would fall out from under
her.</p>

<p>This is probably a common action among parents, playing out
awful scenarios where you die and think about your kid, or where
you get forced off a bridge into icy water and you cannot rescue
her. Or even where she's running down the sidewalk, her sandal
catches on the edge of a segment and she faceplants nosefirst,
coming up a bloody mess. I don't know how to stop such
repetitions, or even if I should. ? Maybe it's evolutionarily
necessary, keeping me on edge lookout to make sure she's safe? In
any case, heart on the sleeve hurts.</p>

<p>[1] Highly recommended even though as of this writing I'm only
halfway through it. Sacks is a great writer and is able to
communicate his considerable insights to laymen like me with
wonderful skill.</p>

<!-- Tags: ella; kids; parenting; neurology; brain  -->

<!--#include virtual="/includes/thread.html" -->
