[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'What are collections?' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">March 17, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>What are collections?</h1>

<p>Like <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/kuro5hin/">Rusty</a> mentioned, we've been working a lot on Collections in perl. I probably
picked the wrong term to use when I started writing them a
number of months ago, because I think <em>collection</em>
has some computer science baggage attached to it. It might
be good baggage, I'm not sure. But since I don't remember
enough of my CS classes to even be dangerous...

<p>Anyway, a Collection is an object that represents some
thing: a person who uses a website, a term in a dictionary,
a translation between terms of two different languages in a
dictionary, a relation between two terms in a dictionary
(you can tell where I've been doing a lot of work recently).
And the base Collection classes (currently two: Collection
and Collection::DBI) don't make any assumptions about what
the thing is. Collections basically just serialize (and
cache) objects for later use. And generally the
implementation classes are fairly simple, in the easiest
case just defining some configuration information (database
information such as fields, field types, table name, etc)
and that's it. The interface for calling one collection
object from another is fairly simple and you can build some
fairly complicated relationships in this manner.

<p>That it for now, more later.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=0">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
