[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Column: Genders battle over pain and suffering' -%]

<BLOCKQUOTE><EM>(If you have known me for a while, you probably know the woman to whom
I refer in this. I still like some of its arguments, but sometimes I wish I'd
get to the point!)</EM></BLOCKQUOTE>

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Genders battle over pain and suffering</H1>

<P><EM>by Chris Winters</EM></P>

<P>Today's subject: Pain. Don't worry, though. It's not like I'm going to
complain about the time I broke my hand running up some stairs in Benedum Hall.
I just want to open a few windows, let some air in.</P>

<P>One time I was arguing with a woman about pain. I had brought up the subject
by way of an article I'd read about Lyndon Johnson. It seems that during his
1948 campaign for the U.S.  Senate, he flew around Texas in- a helicopter and,
for a few days, did so while passing a gallstone. I told this woman that this
was remarkable because doctors -- people who know this sort of thing -- have
gauged passing a gallstone as one of the most acute pains a human being can
withstand.</P>

<P>She said something along the lines of, &quot;Having a baby is more painful,&quot;
and I disagreed. I pointed out that these doctors said differently and, besides,
women are built to have children. It's in their physical makeup. Otherwise the
human race wouldn't be crashing big oil tankers all over the place. A gallstone,
I smugly noted, has nasty sharp edges, and it takes a couple of days to pass
through the urethra - a tube built to carry liquid waste out of the body.</P>

<P>She stuck to her guns, saying that having a baby was the most painful thing
that can happen to anybody. She was a hard-core feminist, so I didn't press the
issue. There are some things you just can't argue with some people.</P>

<P>But got to thinking what this meant. This woman's argument underneath her
objections to gallstone pain, was that the most extreme pain a human being could
feel was the exclusive providence of women. Never mind all those awful things
I'm sure you're thinking right now, things that you think are more painful than
having a baby. This pain was it. She claimed this thing, his pain, as woman's.</P>

<P>But the oddest thing about the whole incident is what was being claimed. 
Extreme pain is something normally associated with  men  in  the  mass
consciousness because men are the only ones who &quot;dare&quot; enough to
achieve such pain, the only ones stupid enough to believe they can hold a
lighter under their hand without feeling a thing. But think about that relation:
To feel such massive pain you must do something extraordinary to earn that pain.
Pain is related to suffering and out of suffering, as all us good Americans
know, come good people, as well as good artists. Therefore good people suffer
real pain, and it's a given that artists must suffer real pain to make real art.
Does this mean that bad people haven't suffered enough?</P>

<P>All that leads me to this: Why are some people so vehemently against women
in combat? If they're so certain that &quot;Women can't handle it,&quot; then
they should probably meet some of those who serve -- the women who go through
the same training as men but who aren't allowed to be on the front lines. Is
something else beneath there? Maybe the opposite of the previously mentioned
woman's view? That if women were equal with men in combat, they'd he equal with
men in &quot;glories&quot; received after combat? That women would be as
decorated as men? A horrible fear that women could possibly do better than men
in combat? That if women &quot;proved themselves,&quot; some exclusive aspect of
their &quot;maleness&quot; would be lost, just as this particular woman
perceived great pain to be &quot;female?&quot;</P>

<P>Unfortunately, I just don't know. I can't say what people are thinking, but
I can point out weird stuff. Does this sort of thinking get anyone anywhere? It
seems to me that once one gender stakes out a claim on something like pain,
which both genders can easily understand, and turns it into something only they
can feel, the other gender will see this as an attack on their gender and react
accordingly.</P>

<P>And it doesn't matter what the real issue is, a person from one group calls
another a name like misogynist&quot; or &quot;hairy-legged feminist,&quot; and
people just get angrier and angrier until it escalates into some all-out,
nuclear hate-fest, and nothing is resolved.</P>

<P>Then a month or so later, the whole deal winds up on Oprab! and the
representative studio audience helps the guests solve the problem in tialfan
hour while later that night Ted Koppel interviews a representative panel of
experts (What? George F. Will again?), and they, too, solve the problem in half
an hour. Pretty neat, eh?</P>
