[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Column: Who\'s to blame for indigestion?' -%]

<BLOCKQUOTE><EM>(I think I've used that image of planes locked in their positions,
afraid to move, in several different writings. It's a powerful one -- how many
times do you find yourself in an argument where neither of you really believes
what you're saying?)</EM></BLOCKQUOTE>

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Who's to blame for indigestion?</H1>

<P><EM>by Chris Winters</EM></P>

<P>One night over the winter break I sat alone in a hotel room drinking good
beer and watching TV. A commercial for Mylanta antacid came on. A very worried,
middle-aged man held his stomach and said the pain was so awful, he was afraid
he might have an ulcer. Fortunately, he relaxed to the camera, just indigestion.
But, he said, &quot;With indigestion this bad, my doctor said, &quot;'Mylanta.'&quot;</P>

<P>Now this seems to be an effective way to sell an antacid. But there's
something else going on here -something which happens every day. Competition
might be a good name for it, but that drags all sorts of Olympic connotations
with it. Usually in a competition, you want to do better at whatever it is
you're doing. But when dealing with this part of human nature (or maybe it's
just American or Western -- I can't be sure), the object is more: more
outrageous, more intense, more insane - more. The man in the commercial bragged
of his horrible indigestion -- his was so bad, it forced him to go to the
doctor. He distinguished himself through his pain.</P>

<P>Nobody wants to admit they're in less pain than someone else because the
lesser pain is somehow delegitimized. (&quot;You know nothing of my pain!&quot;)
They feel compelled to buy the strongest medicine available. So even when a
little tummyache comes from eating too many pierogies, gulp down some Mylanta
and everything will be fine, even if a less powerful (say, Pepto Bismol) cure
will do.</P>

<P>From this comes a curious parallel, one oddly mirrored in the nuclear
proliferation race: The medicines are made stronger because those are the ones
purchased. (Buying weaker medicine would be a sign of frailty.)</P>

<P>The resistance of those afflicted is toughened up as well because the
slightest pain is flooded with enough &quot;relief&quot; to last the next year
and a half. These two keep climbing up and up and up until gallons of Mylanta
must be forced down some buffet eaters throat so he can belch and force down
another spoonful of a wonderful three-bean salad.</P>

<P>I see you women out there nodding, thinking &quot;Just like a man.&quot;
Sure, we crush beer cans on our heads and women call us insensitive clods, but
at least men are open about our competition. Women like to pretend they are
above such petty silliness, that men want nothing more than to breed (how long
is it?), drink (how many beers?) and defecate (how big was it?). But then ask a
woman exactly why she needs mascara.</P>

<P>A woman once told me she'd never let another woman cut her hair because of
a fear the stylist would accidentally-on-purpose make a mistake, however subtle,
which would stain or ruin her beauty. This woman's belief was that no woman can
ever stand to see another woman be beautiful.</P>

<P>Men act like clods (because they're supposed to) because women complain
(because they're supposed to), and if women always talk about it then it must be
true because if it weren't true they wouldn't talk about it (one of those
circular logic things). Two planes circle around an imaginary pole, each on the
others rear and afraid the other is going to shoot. Who's going to break the
circle?</P>

<P>If something bad happens, somebody's at fault. Automatically. However our
society (with a cultural kick from Oprah and Geraldo) has become so inured to
accusations of mere fault that it has to be jazzed up. Those aren't troubled
kids; they're &quot;satanists.&quot; Those aren't bad parents; they're &quot;child
abusers.&quot; People who let alcoholics drink are &quot;enablers.&quot; Myself,
I calm my stomach dysfunction (caused by my chemical addiction to microwaved
bean-and-cheese burritos laced with jalapenos and Rio Grande Red Hot Salsa due
to the death of my dog, &quot;Sailor,&quot; when I was 13) with a few chugs of
Pepto. Coats, soothes, relieves. And I haven't had to call my doctor. Yet.</P>
