[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Pretend is real' -%]

<h1>Pretend is real</h1>

<p>This weekend we switched a bunch of rooms around, including
Ella's. During the move all the stuffed animals previously on top
of her closet were on the floor, and at one point I decided to
pile them all on top of Ella on her bed.</p>

<p>They stayed for a while, and later Ella developed out a story
of going to the animal show. This went through different versions
(going to the Elmo show, going to the duck pond to see Dora and
the animals, going with Elmo to the duck pond to see
ducks). Regardless, there was a big production about getting the
animals to wherever we were going -- all the animals on her bed
were assigned to different cars. At one point I had the green car
with six animals, Ella had yellow with eight. Our cars changed
colors and occupants several times during the trip. We never
actually arrived.</p>

<p>Later, Barb took her out to the grocery so I could put my mad
IKEA skills to work on the last piece of furniture. But when they
got home Barb gave me a look, and Ella had tears running down her
face. </p>

<p>I quizzed her with my eyebrows. "She thought we were going to
the Elmo show after the grocery," Barb said, picking up Ella from
the carseat.</p>

<p>This blew me away. She made up a show, then got upset because
she wasn't going. Was this why we never made it to the show when
we were playing, because she thought we'd be going for real?</p>

<p>And then it struck me how concrete the pretend world can be
for kids her age. Just talking about something can make it
so. That's a wonderful and scary idea.</p>

<!-- Tags: ella; kids; learning; elmo -->

<!--#include virtual="/includes/thread.html" -->
