[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Writing: LUTRAQ Annotated Bibliography' -%]

<P>&nbsp;</P>

    <DIV ALIGN="CENTER">
    <TABLE BORDER="1" BGCOLOR="#FFFFE0">
     <TR ALIGN="LEFT"><TD>
      <UL>
       <LI><A HREF="/writing/lutraq.html">Main Paper</A></LI>
       <LI><A HREF="/writing/lutraq-bib.html">Bibliography</A></LI>
       <LI>Annotated Bibliography</LI>
      </UL>
     </TD></TR>
    </TABLE>
    </DIV>

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">Annotated Bibliography</H1>

<P>Articles used to formulate the position paper are summarized below.  The
arguments of each one have been highlighted to give the reader a general &quot;feel&quot;
of the data used and the opinions thrown about in this debate.  The authors have
given more extensive review to those articles that have been published in
planning journals.  In addition to summaries, the authors have also added
criticism of some of the articles in terms of their logic and strength of their
arguments.</P>

<P>To begin, there are certain facts everyone agrees on: </P>
<UL>
 <LI>In most cases, suburban sprawl is at the root of a large share of
increased VMT. Rapid suburban growth in jobs, households, and population, and
auto-oriented design are the primary reasons for VMT gains.</LI>
 <LI>Approximately half the pollution from cars comes from turning on the car,
also known as &quot;cold starts,&quot; and shut down, or &quot;hot soaks.&quot;</LI>
 <LI>&quot;Clunkers,&quot; while only approximately 10% of the vehicle fleet,
account for as much as half of some types of pollution.  Therefore,
jurisdictions need to get them off the road using a variety of measures.</LI>
</UL>

<A NAME="top"></A>

<H2>Sections</H2>

<UL>
<LI><A HREF="#istea">Implications of the Clean Air Act and
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act</A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="#model">Modeling</A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="#aq">Effects on Air Quality</A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="#tbd">Transit-Based Development</A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="#form">City/Metropolitan Form</A></LI></UL>

<A NAME="istea"></A>

<H2>Implications of the Clean Air Act and Intermodal Surface
Transportation Efficiency Act</H2>

<P><STRONG>Stuart Freudberg</STRONG><BR>Race Against the Clock</P>

<P>In this presentation, Freudberg lays out the implications of the CAA for the
Washington Metro region.  For our purposes, he discusses some land use measures
on page 5:</P>

<P>&quot;A final category of measures address the linkage between vehicle use
and land use.  Some of these areas include:</P>

<UL>
<LI> Establish urban growth boundaries, such as those in place in Oregon;</LI>
<LI> Permit higher densities near Metro stations;</LI>
<LI> Approve only mixed-use developments;</LI>
<LI> Permit certain commercial development to be retrofit into residential
areas.&quot;</LI>
</UL>

<P>This is a good introduction to the land use measures talked about in most
articles.  Many of them also speak of Traffic Control Measures, or TCMs.  Such
policies include: giving incentives to developers to construct fewer parking
spaces, taxing parking spaces in the suburbs and downtown, taxing vehicle milage
in excess of a base number (e.g., 10,000 miles per year), using highway tolls on
congested roads, expanding park-and-ride lots, permitting free parking for
van-pools and car-pools, the &quot;cash-for-clunkers&quot; program that buys the
most polluting vehicles on the road, and so on.  However, discussion of these is
beyond the scope of this paper.</P>

<P>It is a sign of the pervasiveness of land use that its effects may be tied
into most of these measures, e.g., an incentive for fewer parking spaces
developed would be an additional allowed FAR (floor-to-area-ratio, a measure of
development density), which would increase the density of the development which
encourages transit and car-pooling.  While it is somewhat artificial and
arbitrary to separate these measures from land use measures, analysis of control
measures is separated along these lines by the state implementation plan
process.  TCM measures were heavily evaluated by MWCOG.  To date, land use
measures have not been evaluated.</P>

<P>Freudberg also notes the interwoven responsibilities for planning these
topics.  Here, both the Transportation Planning Board and the Metropolitan
Washington Air Quality Committee will be forced to work together more closely
because, &quot;As an example, since transportation causes about two- thirds of
the [pollution] problem, should transportation be responsible for two-thirds of
the solution?&quot; (6)</P>

<P>This also brings up the point made in the CAA and ISTEA that planning can no
longer be relegated to groups:  transportation planners writing the &quot;transportation&quot;
section and not concerning themselves with the remaining pieces of a master
plan, for instance.  Planning must keep the larger picture in mind.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Michael J. Clifford</STRONG><BR>Washington Region Gears Up to Meet
Clean Air Requirements</P>

<P>This is a general overview of the CAA.  Of particular note is the following
point:</P>

<P>Information on the number of trip origins and destinations in the region is
also critical.  Past analyses of the different components of travel emissions,
the start-up, running, and destination portions, have indicated that as much
pollution occurs at the beginning and end of the trip as during the running
portion.  This suggests that, to have their greatest impact, appropriate
emissions control strategies should address not just the length of trips, but
the number of trips each day. (15)</P>

<P>Most of the articles reviewed by the authors of this position paper rely on
the measure of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) to gauge whether a project is
beneficial.  One of the facts to which both sides agree, and which Clifford
mentions here, is that nearly half of the pollution originated from cars comes
from a cold start and after the car is shut down.  Given this basic and
enormously influential fact, it would seem that a focus on VMT is misleading. 
Since half the pollution is produced merely from starting the car, it would be a
logical conclusion that measures which reduce the total number of auto trips (or
a more easily compared statistic, trips per capita) could give a more robust
reflection of emissions generation the VMT-only data.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Michael Clifford</STRONG><BR>Meeting Clean Air Requirements</P>

<P>This article was written later than the previous one.  Clifford again makes
the point of the importance of trip elimination rather than trip distance
reduction.  In addition, he shows how dramatically emissions are being reduced
by vehicle and fuel technology (such as oxygenated fuels), and a gives a brief
discussion of conformity, or the process by which planning agencies address
whether a new road project worsens the region's air quality.  He does not
discuss land use directly in either of these articles.</P>

<P ALIGN="RIGHT"><A HREF="#top">top</A>

<A NAME="model"></A>

<H2>Modeling</H2>

<P>Modeling is a crucial issue in this debate.  Modeling makes up the crux of
the transportation conformity analysis and the EPA partially relies upon
modeling results to determine air quality attainment.  One problem with models
is that they must always play catch-up to recent academic and scientific
developments: in order to model new relationships, the relationships must first
be proven by a more rigorous process than debate.  Assumptions of a model are
critical.  Asher (1978) in his study of the accuracy of forecasts, concluded
that &quot;core assumptions&quot; were more important determinants of the
accuracy of any forecast than were any other factors:</P>

<P>The core assumptions underlying a forecast, which represent the forecaster's
basic outlook on the context within which the specific forecasted trend
develops, are the major determinants of forecast accuracy. Methodologies are
basically the vehicles for determining the consequences or implications of core
assumptions that have been chosen more or less independently of the specific
methodologies.  When the core assumptions are valid, the choice of methodology
is either secondary or obvious.  When the core assumptions fail to capture the
reality of the future context, other factors such as methodology generally make
little difference; they cannot &quot;save&quot; the forecast. </P>

<P>This same statement holds true for models.  Two articles annotated here
maintain that a &quot;core assumption&quot; of transportation modeling is that
land use will not have a significant effect on transportation demand, thus
skewing any study using this assumption away from land use measures.  In
addition, they highlight the deficiencies in the current air quality modeling
process.</P>

<P>It is important to make a distinction between forecasting and scenario
testing.  Two articles here, one by Czerniak and DeCorla-Souza and the other by
May and Scheuernstuhl, are testing various scenarios.  That is, they try and
determine what the effects would be given a changed set of variables (in this
case, land use patterns).  Forecasting, on the other hand, begins with the
assumption, &quot;What is most likely to happen,&quot; given present
circumstances and tendencies, and determines various transportation effects a
set number of years in the future.  The further in the future the forecast
attempts to model, the less accurate the forecast is.  The forecasts used in
Clean Air Act attainment testing are only five years in the future, thus
minimizing the effects of policy changes by using a short timeframe.</P>

<P>Another phenomenon important in understanding the difficulties in modeling
the interaction between transportation and land use is indeterminacy  (This very
complex concept is briefly touched on here but can be explored in further depth
in Gleick, 1988 and Waldrop, 1992.)</P>

<P>Indeterminacy is the idea that the future cannot be determined for systems
whose results depend on many variables.  An example of this is the weather. 
Weather forecasts are reasonably accurate for the immediate future (one to three
days) but with less certainty for each succeeding day until finally, the
forecast is more a guess based on experience than a hypothesis based on data. 
The reason for this is what those studying chaos theory call &quot;sensitive
dependence on initial conditions&quot; after a seminal paper by a weather
forecaster.  In lay terms, this means simply that there are so many important
variables going into the development of the weather, there is simply no way we
can know them all.  Without this knowledge, it is impossible to predict beyond a
certain point what the weather will do.</P>

<P>This does not mean, however, we have no idea of the future.  We know 80o
days in January in the Washington, D.C. area are extremely rare, that hurricanes
do not develop in Kansas, and that Los Angeles, in all likelihood, will not see
a foot of snow in anyone's lifetime.  Put simply, we know tendencies of such
complex systems.  We know boundaries and can put that into any forecasting
techniques we use.  </P>

<P>Related to transportation modeling, we know that without policy changes, the
transit mode share is fairly constant, and if a model forecasts too much above
or below that constant number, some assumptions or data are wrong.  We are
familiar with the boundaries of transportation and behavior, and if a model
exceeds the boundaries we know how to fix it.</P>

<P>The problem with land use modifications in this regard is that we do not
possess a real benchmark to measure against.  Efforts to gauge effectiveness of
transit at attracting people given different land uses surrounding the station
are difficult because there are so many differences between transit systems. 
The relationship between land use and transportation is unclear, so modelers of
this relationship cannot be certain if their results conform to any standard and
thus, cannot fix what they do not know is broken.  At this time, the most
important aspects of these models are those they contribute to the understanding
of the land use-transportation relationship rather than the results derived from
their interpretation of the relationship.</P>

<P>In addition, the nature of feedback loops is important to understand. 
Briefly, there are two types of such interactions: positive and negative.  An
example of a negative feedback loop is a thermostat: the thermostat is set for a
certain temperature (for example, 70o) which can be thought of as an
equilibrium.  As the room or house cools, the thermostat activates the heater to
bring the temperature back up to 70o.  But it is not a precise instrument, and
often warms the room or house too much.  The thermostat then shuts off the
heater until the room or house cools below 70o once again.  This fluctuation of
movement around the set temperature gives a general idea of a negative feedback
loop.  In transportation modeling, this can be seen when congestion, caused by
filling a roadway's capacity to move automobiles, influences a driver's decision
to choose another route. </P>

<P>A positive feedback loop, by comparison, does not revolve around an
equilibrium.  Instead, it continues to grow or diminish and can become
exponential if unchecked.  An example of this is a compound interest savings
account: each month's interest takes into account the month's balance which
includes the previous month's interest.  The difference between the two types of
loop has been described as a &quot;vicious&quot; versus a &quot;virtuous&quot;
circle.  The vicious circle grossly magnifies general tendencies of a system
while the virtuous circle maneuvers around and finally settles at a stable
point.</P>

<P>Again, it cannot be emphasized enough the importance of both the data and
the methodology used as the model's assumptions.  If either of these is
incorrect, all results of the model are suspect.  In a field as young as this
one, the assumptions going into a model must be investigated even closer.</P>

<P>For more information on the transportation demand modeling process, see &quot;TRAVEL/2:
A Simultaneous Approach to Transportation Modeling&quot; available at the
Montgomery County Planning Department.  </P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Greig Harvey and Elizabeth Deakin</STRONG><BR>Toward Improved
Regional Transportation Modeling Practice</P>

<P>This article deals mostly with modeling, but it gives a lucid overall
discussion of how transportation works its way into every part of planning,
especially in the implications of the CAA.</P>

<P>The authors discuss the deficiencies in modeling today, and propose general
methods and procedures to fix them.  Primarily, they claim conventional modeling
practices do not provide adequate support for conformity analysis as well as the
regional modeling required to determine future air quality levels.  In addition,
and of importance to this paper, is the fact that a good deal of these practices
rely on the link between transportation and land use, of a road facility's
ability to influence the patterns of development around it based on its level of
congestion.</P>

<P>The thesis of the paper is summed up: &quot;Most models are poorly equipped
to capture the behavioral effects of [TCMs].... MPOs either will have to extend
the behavioral reach of their models (e.g., by adding explanatory variables that
are relevant to non-traditional TCMs) or will have to find ways of grafting
credible off-model estimates of TCM impact onto conventional model results.&quot;
(14)</P>

<P>Specific ways models often fail to capture or reflect reality (paraphrased
from 25-29):</P>
<UL>
<LI> Drivers should be able to change routes when a different route becomes
faster;
</LI>
<LI> Transit users should be able to switch to automobiles if travel in roughly
parallel mixed-use lanes becomes speedier;
</LI>
<LI> Trips timed to take advantage of quicker travel during the peak hour
should come from the shoulder hours (those surrounding the peak hour) and,
therefore, lessen congestion there as well;
</LI>
<LI> Operating conditions of regional roads and future plans for highway
investment can influence corporate decisions as to where, or if, to relocate; in
addition, regional migration and emigration is influenced by the availability of
jobs; therefore, future and present road conditions can influence the number of
people in the region.  While the relationship is not direct and it is unclear as
to which element causes which, the paper notes that this is important primarily
when comparing build and no-build plans &Auml; if the number of jobs is static
no matter what roads are built, an important facet of future growth may be
ignored;
</LI>
<LI> &quot;It is possible that as increasing congestion pushes low and middle
income workers toward the more distant suburbs, employers relying on these
workers will follow. In other words, failure to build infrastructure may hasten 
the multinucleation of an urban region, and the addition of infrastructure (to
relieve inner-area congestion) may enhance the viability of the core.&quot;
(28-9)
</LI>
<LI> Residential choice is also influenced by future and present road
conditions.  If regional congestion conditions are not improved, more and
higher-density development may be located nearer to the central job location. 
However, &quot;...a general pattern of increasing congestion may lead high
income households to bid up close-in locations, thereby pushing lower income
households toward the periphery.&quot; (28)  But the authors also stress the
importance of land use policy, the nature of which could drastically change any
land use effects from road construction or modification.
</LI></UL>

<P>As a result of these failings:</P>

<P>&#183;   &quot;There is reason to anticipate that failure to competently
execute the analysis requirements of the Clean Air Act may result in legal
actions against MPOs and other entities which approve 'deficient' plans.&quot;
(15)</P>

<P>Unfortunately, the state-of-the-practice models and technology are not up to
these challenges.  The main reason for this is sheer computational power,
prohibitively expensive for smaller jurisdictions as well as the resources
required to enter and maintain data on both air quality and transportation
conditions and developments.  In addition, the complexity of both the existing
transportation model and the analysis of the model's results can be staggering;
integrating a land use model into it might be an insurmountable task for the
best in the field given present resources.  One reason for this is that the
relationships between land use and transportation are so varied and hidden as to
be nearly impossible to document.  The number and nature of variables involved
are amazing, and while we can say with fair certainty that, for example,
high-density development within a quarter mile of a transit station is
beneficial to transit ridership, the amount is up for grabs depending on the
transit system, the road system, the history of transit in the city, and even
the weather.</P>

<P>Some issues raised in this article can also be found in the US Department of
Transportation document Transportation and Air Quality, also written by Harvey
and Deakin.  It is less technical, more general, and concentrates on air quality
more than this article.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>1000 Friends of Oregon</STRONG>,<BR>Making the Land Use,
Transportation, and Air Quality Connection</P>

<P><STRONG>LUTRAQ Update</STRONG></P>

<P><STRONG>Keith A. Bartholomew</STRONG>, <BR>Making the Land Use,
Transportation, Air Quality Connection</P>

<P>(all page notations are from the first reference unless otherwise noted)</P>

<P>These documents relate a project known as LUTRAQ (for <B>L</B>and <B>U</B>se,
<B>TR</B>ansportation, and <B>A</B>ir<B> Q</B>uality) that was begun in 1991
and is scheduled to end mid-1994.  The very first sentence of the project
description states: &quot;Land use, transportation, and air quality are
inextricably linked in terms of social cause and effect.&quot; (1)  This
assumption, stating outright the intuitive but as yet unproven link between land
use and air quality, is indicative of those who support the link.  </P>

<P>The purpose of this study is &quot;to develop methodologies for changing
local land use policies and development designs to increase the use and economic
feasibility of alternatives to automotive travel and thereby:</P>
<UL>
<LI> reduce energy consumption;
</LI>
<LI> reduce dependence on automotive travel;
</LI>
<LI> increase mobility for all segments of society;
</LI>
<LI> provide for sustainable population and economic growth;
</LI>
<LI> minimize negative environmental impacts, particularly those on air
quality, and
</LI>
<LI> increase community character.&quot; (1)
</LI></UL>

<P>However, the project does not focus on land use to the exclusion of TDM
measures or transit service expansions.  Instead, they are trying to determine
how these measures can work together, and if they do at all.  </P>

<P>As a case study, the project is evaluating a proposed bypass freeway in
Portland, Oregon.  Those doing the project are concerned that the ongoing study
by the Oregon Department of Transportation will take as an assumption the
present automotive-intensive travel nature and will not consider other, more
permanent and fundamental changes which would address the same traffic problems
the bypass purports to solve.</P>

<P>They write, as many articles do, of the detrimental effects of sprawl
development (see also Easley, 1992, pp. 1-3).  One of the effects they contend
sprawl development has is increased congestion.  This is almost a mantra among
planners as well as other activist groups, but not quite true in and of itself. 
Inefficient usage of resources, prompted by the suburban desire to separate not
only home and work but also home and shopping, is at the root of congestion. 
Sprawl development is notorious for this separation, but no rule states it must
be this way.  In addition, it is often hostile to both bicycle and pedestrian
traffic, and it cannot be served by public transit as efficiently because of its
low densities.  (This creates a &quot;vicious&quot; feedback loop: transit will
not serve sprawled communities because of the low densities and people in these
communities are discouraged from using transit because of the lack of transit
service.)</P>

<P>The key, as they see it, is increased density which will provide further
transit use.  This is not a new idea, but the depth in which they will explore
it is.  Once this project is completed, communities and metropolitan regions
around the nation will at least have a tool they can use for such measures,
rather than not having any tools at all. The EPA is interested in this project
because of its potential to &quot;provide communities [some of them not able to
afford, in money or resources, high- powered computer modeling] with the
conceptual, analytical, and technical tools&quot; (8-9)</P>

<P>The project group has come out with preliminary results from their study
this year.  They found the &quot;LUTRAQ alternative, as compared with the Bypass
alternative for the year 2010, would:</P>
<UL>
<LI> Increase the share of trips from home to work made by transit by 45%;
</LI>
<LI> Increase the proportion of all trips made either on foot or by bicycle by
22%;
</LI>
<LI> Reduce the number of households who will own 2-3 automobiles by 5.6%;
</LI>
<LI> Reduce the number of vehicle trips per household by 7.7%;
</LI>
<LI> Reduce peak hour miles traveled by 13.6%&quot; (LUTRAQ Update, 2).
</LI></UL>

<P>While these numbers are impressive, the first two in particular are somewhat
misleading.  The reason that the percentage increases are so high is that it is
improving on an already marginal mode share.  For instance, if the mode share
before the LUTRAQ improvements is 8%, a 45% increase would only move the mode
share up to 11.6%.  This must be taken into consideration when viewing results
regarding mode share improvements.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Robert J. Czerniak and Patrick DeCorla-Souza</STRONG><BR>Toledo,
Ohio: Alternative Transportation and Land Use Structures</P>

<P>This report attempts to document the efforts of the authors to investigate
the effects, in a computer model, of radically modified land use patterns. 
Other studies (see May and Scheuernstuhl, 1991 and Wickstrom, 1991 below)
modified only the location of new development, leaving the old cityscape
untouched.</P>

<P>Czerniak and DeCorla-Souza wanted to see what would happen if they put all
the employment and population from one metropolitan area (Area A) of 150 square
miles into a metropolitan area (Area B) of 25 square miles; Area B being
approximately one-thirty-sixth Area A.  The authors themselves characterize
their experiment as one of &quot;radically altered urban form,&quot; but state
their arrangement is not an &quot;unrealistic alternative&quot;: &quot;[I]f, for
example, one considers that immediately after the end of World War II, few
planners correctly envisioned the polycentric city of today, a radical change
from the historic monocentric urban form.&quot; (330-332)  Whether this is true
is eminently debatable.</P>

<P>The authors tested four alternatives: (1) the base land use with limited
transit and no parking charges; (2) within the concentrated urban boundaries and
with neither transit nor parking charges; (3) within the smaller boundaries and
with extensive transit but not parking charges; (4) also within the more limited
boundaries, it has extensive geographic transit and also a $5 parking surcharge
&quot;to the destination end for all trip purposes&quot; (333, emphasis added).</P>

<P>Their data are not as shocking as they might be, but still worth discussion.
 They found that &quot;The compact land use pattern is the controlling factor
and that the transit system has only a minor effect on trip making.&quot; (333) 
Before listing other results, it should be reiterated that in Alternative (4),
the parking surcharge was added to each and every destination end.  This not
only means parking cost $5 at work (which is a reasonable and oft-mentioned
policy assumption), but $5 at the grocery, $5 at the mall, and $5 at home.</P>

<UL>
 <LI>The most dramatic change can be found in vehicle miles traveled (VMT). 
The change in VMT between the base land use and the three densified land uses
ranged from 39.1% to 41.4%.  In terms of air quality, this is not as dramatic as
if the number of trips were reduced by this amount, but it is dramatic just the
same. </LI>
 <LI>The number of trips only diminished by 7.9% between Alternatives (1) and
(4), lending support to the notion that increased density does not bring fewer
trips, only trips by a different mode.</LI>
 <LI>The number of transit riders tripled between Alternatives (3) and (4), the
only difference between them being the $5 parking charge.  Transit ridership
increased more than five-fold between Alternatives (1) and (4) as well.  </LI>
 <LI>The amount travel in delay from Alternative (1) to (2), to (3), and to (4)
increased dramatically, from 2.8% in the former to 22.2%, 18.1%, and 16.2%,
respectively.  In addition, the amount of road mileage in congestion (where
traffic volume is equal to or greater than road capacity) rises from 6.2% in
(1), to 20.4% in (2), 18.6% in (3), and 17.1% in (4).  These numbers are
expected &Auml; when the urban boundary is reduced by thirty-six times, the
roads are reduced by an equally dramatic amount &Auml; but it is still worth
noting that the number of trips did not decline by a greater amount, despite the
delays faced by traveling via automobile.</LI>
</UL>

<P>They noted that their objectives also included analyzing the present
modeling tools: &quot;...testing extreme alternatives could identify the
weaknesses in the modeling technique.&quot; (332)  Their conclusions are stated
categorically: &quot;...conventional trip generation models cannot capture the
reduction in motorized travel demand resulting from shifts to the walk or
bicycle mode when higher densities and pedestrian or bicycle-friendly or
'auto-hostile' urban design is put into place.&quot;  (334)  While this is
somewhat misleading &Auml; trip generation models do not calculate mode share,
mode choice models do &Auml; the general point should be considered that current
transportation models are not able to reflect short pedestrian or transit trips
with any accuracy.  However, as a counterpoint to this counterpoint, it should
be remembered that no transportation model has ever underestimated transit
ridership.</P>

<P>Another weakness of the model: &quot;New development impacts must be
estimated exogenously in the conventional modeling process which seldom
considers land use impacts of transportation infrastructure investments.&quot;
(334)  As mentioned previously (see Harvey and Deakin, 1991), this is a
difficult, perhaps even impossible, task.  However, as future policy is created
in this complicated area, it is crucial to understand the limitations of the
models and the modeling process itself.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Jeff May and George Scheuernstuhl</STRONG><BR>Sensitivity Analysis
for Land Use, Transportation, and Air Quality</P>

<P>This article aims to detect the effects of focusing development in the
Denver metro area around transit corridors as well as not building a number of
highway facilities.</P>

<P>To begin with, the Council of Governments (DCOG) estimated that, without
changing land use policies, 40 percent of new employment and 20 percent of new
population would locate themselves either within 1 mile of a rapid transit
alignment or within 1 1/2 miles of a rapid transit station.  For an alternative,
the authors decided to double these shares of new growth, concentrating 80
percent of the employment and 40 percent of the new population in these areas. 
In real numbers, this required 195,000 future residents and 226,600 future
employees would be shifted from other areas.  This higher-density scenario was
then matched with a reduced roadway network.</P>

<P>Even though a vast majority of the new jobs and a plurality of population
growth would be occurring around the stations and corridors, this still only
accounted for 13 percent of the total employment and seven percent of the total
population.  This means that any changes will be at the margins rather than
through and entire system.</P>

<P>There are several things to note about this paper:</P>

<P>First, the distance from the transit station is far too long. 
One-and-a-half miles is a long way, twenty minutes walking at a brisk 4.5 miles
per hour.  In addition, putting development within a mile along a corridor isn't
the most effective policy either, since people could wind up walking a long way,
even farther than 1.5 miles, just to get to the station.</P>

<P>Related to this is the curious mention on p. 63 that &quot;Out-of-vehicle
travel time is weighed by 2.5.&quot;  So even if people in the model around the
transit stations wanted to walk to the station, if they were more than 10-15
minutes away it's doubtful they would do so, since that 10-15 minutes is weighed
by each person as if it were actually 25-37.5 minutes.  Since people in the
model do not have judgement, the factors of time and money are crucial.  Also,
the model did not convert auto trips to walk trips at higher densities.  So if,
for instance, a person in the model wanted to make an easily walkable
quarter-mile trip to the zone next to him which happened to have a grocery
store, he would be forced by the model to drive.  This weight is standard
modeling practice, and again highlights the fact that current transportation
models do not accurately capture short pedestrian trips.  The level of detail
required for this is beyond the current computational capabilities of
transportation models.  </P>

<P>The authors also did not consider other land use changes.  For instance,
mixed-use development could shorten trip lengths considerably, in addition to
auto trips.  (Although, as mentioned in the last paragraph, even these trips
would be auto, rather than walk.)   The authors admit that &quot;The increase
[in alternative scenario trip lengths] during the off-peak may be reflective of
a greater separation of activity areas and residents under the alternative
scenario...&quot; (63)</P>

<P>No additional parking charges (other than minor ones &Auml; $.64 on average &Auml;
which were tied to employment density) were considered either.  As pointed out
in a previous annotation (Czerniak and DeCorla-Souza, 1992), the number of trips
was greatly influenced by parking charges.  Harvey and Deakin (1991) posited
that there may be a relationship between land use densities and
employment/population growth; this study did not take this possible relationship
into account.</P>

<P>This study also measures the air quality in the model, although in an
inconclusive fashion.  They measured carbon monoxide (CO) in the CBD only,
admitting that this arises from &quot;more congestion in the Denver CBD&quot;
(66).  They do not, however, test it anywhere else.  CO is what is known as a &quot;hot
spot&quot; pollutant, however, and is more a localized phenomenon than ozone. 
Their model for ozone does not allow predictions for ozone levels, and the
difference between the base and alternative scenarios of the PM10 pollutant was
only 2 percent, noting that &quot;such a small difference is less than the range
of accuracy of the model.&quot; (66)  Furthermore, in the case of NOx, they
acknowledge that their model &quot;is not sensitive to differences in spatial
distribution; therefore, the effects of the spatial difference between the two
transportation data sets are not adequately analyzed.&quot; (66)</P>

<P>All in all, it is another reminder that the tools we possess for analysis of
future alternative scenarios are, at best, clumsy.  This study highlights two
other shortcomings: </P>

<UL>
 <LI>In redistributing only new growth rather than modifying established
patterns, they ensured that any changes would be extremely small;</LI>
 <LI>With the failure to consider mixed-use development, as well as the
possibility that people, put near shopping for groceries or whatnot, might
actually walk rather than drive their cars, the authors eliminated the very
advantages of high-density development they tried to highlight.</LI>
</UL>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>George V. Wickstrom</STRONG><BR>Can Alternative Land-Use Patterns
Reduce Transportation Needs?</P>

<P>This short (three page) report focuses on the Washington Metro Region
serviced by COG.  It briefly introduces the concepts behind the land
use/transportation link also.</P>

<P>Of note is a study the Federal Highway Administration contracted with COG to
&quot;quantify the potential that land-use changes could have on the demand for
transportation in the Washington area.&quot;  COG tested two land-use scenarios,
one &quot;balanced&quot; scenario, moving 200,000 households from low- density
areas outside the region to high employment areas in the region; one &quot;concentrated&quot;
scenario with the balance, but also redistributing 165,000 jobs to be more
accessible by public transportation, doubling the number of jobs between 1995
and 2010 in these areas.  Results:</P>

<P>Balanced: </P>
<UL>
<LI>Increased transit use to work by 13%;</LI>
<LI>Reduced VMT per household by 11.5%;</LI>
<LI>Only increased total VMT, with 200,000 more    households, by 1%;</LI>
<LI>Improved system speed;</LI>
<LI>Reduced average trip length;</LI>
<LI>Accounted for major reductions in travel outside the beltway, and outside
the region studied, in excess of 5,000,000 VMT daily.</LI>
</UL>

<P>Concentrated:</P>

<P>&#183; Increased transit use and improved system performance, but didn't
reduce VMT or trip length.</P>

<P>These results, however, should be taken with a grain of salt.  As COG notes
in a summary of their attempts to model effects of modified land uses: &quot;Because
of time and budget limitations, mode choice was not run for the two alternative
scenarios.  Rather, the base case modal splits (percentage transit use) and auto
occupancy were held constant between origin and destination pairs.&quot;</P>

<P>In addition: &quot;Another simplifying assumption was the vehicle ownership,
a key variable in trip generation, was assumed to be the same as the zonal
average in the base case test for both alternative scenarios.&quot;  That is,
COG did not take into effect higher parking costs that often result from high-
density development and can dissuade people from owning as many cars.  The
raised costs usually influence drivers to either rideshare or switch to transit,
which they cannot do in the COG model.</P></BODY></HTML>

<P ALIGN="RIGHT"><A HREF="#top">top</A>

<A NAME="aq"></A>

<H2>Effects on Air Quality</H2>

<P><STRONG>Chang-Hee Christine Bae and Harry Richardson</STRONG><BR>Automobiles,
the Environment, and Metropolitan Spatial Structure</P>

<P>This article deals with the land use part of the link and judges &quot;such
drastic measures&quot; as unnecessary, costly, and products of a utopian vision:
&quot;...trying to put suburbanization and decentralization in reverse, even if
feasible, which is very doubtful, is not a sound strategy for reducing air
pollution levels.&quot;  The authors feel that land use strategies will not be
nearly as effective as &quot;...direct policies (e.g. road congestion pricing,
emission fees).&quot; (1)</P>

<P>They grant that the growth of the suburbs has brought on some unanticipated
downside features of economic expansion and that increased air pollution is one
among many negative aspects. (1)  But, they characterize as &quot;moderate&quot;
the idea that air pollution would move from the city to the suburbs, and &quot;extreme&quot;
the hypothesis that suburbanization leads to auto dependence and that the more
and/or longer trips from the suburbs exacerbate air pollution in the
metropolitan region.  This paper evaluates the &quot;extreme&quot; hypothesis,
relying on data from the Los Angeles metropolitan region.</P>

<P>They proceed to enumerate the &quot;defects with the 'decentralization
implies more pollution' hypothesis&quot; (2):</P>
<UL>
 <LI>Suburbs produce longer work trips, but this is only a temporary
disequilibrium. As jobs move closer to the suburbs, there will be a balance. 
(For analysis of this hypothesis, see Levinson and Kumar, annotated in the <I>City/Metropolitan
Form</I> section.)</LI>
 <LI>While the suburbs produce longer work trips (12.3 miles vs. 9.3 miles),
they also produce faster work trips (28.9 mph vs 26.2 mph).  There is a &quot;much
stronger association between air pollution and vehicle hours traveled (VHT) than
with VMT.&quot; (2)</LI>
 <LI>Technology will play catch-up with government regulations.</LI>
 <LI>Other measures (such as those mentioned in the summary of Stuart
Freudberg's presentation), while they have political and institutional obstacles
in front of them, are far easier to implement than either changes in travel
behavior or restructuring the patterns of land use.</LI></UL>

<P>Further analysis of the article reveals several inconsistencies:</P>
<UL>
 <LI>They attempt to cast doubt on the primary argument in changing land use,
that higher and mixed density development relate to fewer auto trips, through
murky logic.  They grant the trips will become shorter, then state that the
reduced travel costs inherent in shorter trips will have a &quot;demand-inducing
effect&quot; and actually increase the frequency of trips.  It is unclear
whether they allowed some short trips to shift modes in their analysis, from
auto to walk, for example.</LI>
 <LI>They shift gears and refer to a simulation &quot;where a tripling of
exurban densities was required to reduce exurban commuting distances by 5
percent&quot; (4).  They do not explain the use of an exurban area in the
simulation when they are discussing more urban, or even suburban areas in the
article.</LI>
 <LI>Their contention that VHT is more important than VMT might be true, but
using their own statistics, suburban trips are still longer than urban trips.</LI>
 <LI> Next, they state the increased auto travel or gas consumption &quot;cannot
be simply equated with increased environmental damage,&quot; (4) citing
increased VMT per capita in rural areas as opposed to urban areas.  They grant
that the lower density in rural areas requires this, then make a jump in logic
to state, all other things being equal, &quot;higher-density neighborhoods are
more likely to be more polluted neighborhoods.&quot; (4)  They argue against the
land use plan for higher density neighborhoods by taking away the very benefit
higher density neighborhoods are purported to provide (increased access to
transit) in their &quot;all other things being equal&quot; provision. </LI></UL>

<P>They also include an appendix that again misses the point.  They surely
realize that air quality is not strictly a localized phenomenon: ozone is known
to accumulate, for example, from the Tidewater all the way up the eastern
seaboard to Maine.  Yet they categorically state &quot;high-density (whether in
population or employment terms) locations are not low-pollutant locations;
and... suburban cities do not, in general, suffer from higher pollution levels.&quot;
 There is not a direct correlation between the exact site of air pollution and
exact location of the source of pollution, yet to prove the point, they assume
the correlation.  Then, to confuse the issue a step further, they state: </P>

<P>Especially with respect to smog (ozone), the pollution level at any
particular location is much more affected by geographical, topographical and
climatic factors than by densities or degree of suburbanization: air
temperature, wind levels and direction, and proximity to the ocean or to the
base of a mountain are much more important than land use and spatial structure
characteristics. (5)</P>

<P>They undercut their own argument without realizing it: if the source of
pollution cannot be pinpointed, then to categorically state that it does not
come from low-density areas is faulty logic.  In addition, they ignore side
effects &Auml;dependence on automobiles&Auml; that low-density areas encourage,
which are diffuse enough to defy simple characterization as &quot;belonging&quot;
to one type of area or another.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Chang-Hee Christine Bae</STRONG> <BR>Air Quality and Travel
Behavior: Untying the Knot</P>

<P>This paper also focuses on the Los Angeles metropolitan region and the
measures aimed at reducing VMT in their 1991 Air Quality Management Plan (AQMP).
 Bae argues these measures would reduce the pollutants only slightly, certainly
not enough to merit either the radical changes in travel behavior or the
substantial price tag attached. </P>

<P>However, her method of argument, boiled down, is something like this faulty
syllogism:  </P>
<UL>
 <LI>Traffic Control Measures (TCMs) will work only marginally because changing
behavior on such a grand scale is too difficult.</LI>
 <LI>Mode shift strategies and alternative work schedules are two TCMs.</LI>
 <LI>Mode shift strategies and alternative work schedules have only a marginal
effect on pollution reduction.</LI>
 <LI>TCMs have only a marginal effect on pollution reduction.</LI></UL>

<P>She predicates her whole argument on two TCM's and then condemns all of
them.  She discusses land use very little and limits her discussion to these
measures in Los Angeles rather than the more general measures taken nationwide
under the impetus of the CAA.  Also, this article curiously omits any mention of
the CAA, leading one to believe that, despite its 1993 publication, it was
either written before the CAA or that the new controls and restrictions imposed
by it would weaken her argument.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Patrick DeCorla-Souza and Richard Schoeneberg</STRONG><BR>The
Transportation - Air Quality Connection: Perceptions and Realities</P>

<P>This piece purports to give the &quot;reality&quot; on the
transportation/air quality link.</P>

<P>The first perception deals with a point raised in another annotated article.
 In it, Kenworthy and Newman suggested that letting congestion run its course,
forcing people to either deal with it or choose an alternative route or mode,
might in some cases be a good idea.  The authors say this can be done only if
other modes are available.  Normally, policy would not simply let congestion
worsen without any alternatives for the traffic.  </P>

<P>They then say letting congestion remain would be counter to clean air goals
for three reasons:</P>
<UL>
 <LI>Speedier modes are often unavailable;</LI>
 <LI>When there are no alternative modes, travel will shift to different times
of day, different destinations, or different, often more circuitous, travel
routes.</LI>
 <LI>Congestion itself will cause most emissions to increase.</LI></UL>

<P>The second point is the interesting one.  The unintended effects of such a
congestion policy may be traffic moving onto roads not engineered to handle such
loads.</P>

<P>The &quot;perception,&quot; however, has been framed in terms of growth. 
Growth is not the only causative agent putting new traffic onto roads with
increased capacity.  There is also the fact of changed routes taking advantage
of the new travel savings.  If traffic grew as quickly as growth (either
employment or population), we would expect both the number of trips or the
vehicle miles traveled (VMT) to increase at roughly the same rate.  This has not
happened over the past 15 years.  Framing this traffic addition sidesteps this
entire issue.</P>

<P>The second perception is that new highway capacity will lead to new growth,
more trips, and therefore increased emissions.  Here, they say this perception
assumes three things:</P>
<UL>
 <LI>Transportation by itself is capable of jolting new regional growth in jobs
and housing, not just shifting growth from one place to another;</LI>
 <LI>A &quot;latent&quot; demand for travel exists (see Bae), and;</LI>
 <LI>Long-term additions to capacity, primarily those in the suburbs, promote
sprawl and its consequential automobile-dependence.</LI></UL>

<P>The authors respond to these perceptions with three &quot;major realities&quot;:</P>
<UL>
 <LI>Highway capacity, by itself, cannot spur new growth.  It can help growth,
but other factors need to be in place.</LI>
 <LI>Transportation is only a means for people to get to other activities, and
increased participation will not happen just because it's easier to get there. 
Again, they say, other factors need to be in place;</LI>
 <LI>Although it may be true that people may be induced to travel longer
distances (since the time is reduced), the emissions impact will be negligible,
and;</LI>
 <LI>Most highway capacity additions in the future will &quot;merely be a
fine-tuning of the existing system to enhance its efficiency. Higher densities
can only be achieved over the long term with coordinated multimodal
transportation and land use policies.&quot; (159, emphasis added) </LI></UL>

<P>The third perception relates to densification of land in order to increase
transit use.  DeCorla- Souza and Schoeneberg cite global data (see Kenworthy and
Newman) and neotraditional planning concepts as proponents of this idea.</P>

<P>The authors believe this promise should be tempered by several
considerations: </P>
<UL>
 <LI>the policy will take several decades to bear fruit;</LI>
 <LI>several studies have shown that, even over a 20 year period, VMT is
reduced by less than 5% against the base land use and transportation plan;</LI>
 <LI>these studies also showed that congestion could become worse (although the
authors do not state where it would do so), and the resulting pollution would
negate any benefits from reduced VMT;</LI>
 <LI>marginal increases in density throughout areas over the next 10 years
won't be enough to support the transit service planned to serve them. 
Therefore, the authors say, people will rely on their automobile even in densely
developed areas.  Length of trips might be reduced, but the number of trips
aren't, providing minimal benefits due to the cold start problem discussed
earlier.</LI></UL>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>J.D. Landis</STRONG><BR>The California Urban Futures model: a new
generation of metropolitan simulation models.</P>

<P>This is a new metropolitan urban growth simulation model that replicates the
impacts of growth and development policy for a region. It is a significant
improvement over previous models.  Key among the innovations this model employs
is a modular approach to the complex inputs of a land use model.  Previous
models ran a series of interconnected equations that could not be isolated
easily. This model can be easily broken down into its components and analyzed or
changed.  Another advancement is a spatial element.  It is operated through
ARCH/INFO, a geographic information systems program that is user friendly.  It
also has enhanced accessibility determinants for future growth, and it can
easily incorporate various (and perhaps conflicting) development policies.</P>

<P>The modular inputs are arrayed in a series of sub-models.  The spatial
sub-model provides an inventory of undeveloped and underdeveloped parcels of
land. This is the supply side of the urban growth equation.  The population
growth sub-model provides the demand-side inputs.  It functions similarly to a
population and growth forecasting tool. Another sub-model, the spatial
allocation sub- model, is a series of decision rules for allocating the growth
to the undeveloped parcels.  These decision rules are made up of market forces
within a framework of governmental policy.  Accessibility is measured in several
different ways as a determinant of the location and density of new development.</P>

<P>The effects of a new regulation or a new investment policy can be simulated
in three ways:  adding new spatial features to the GIS layers, changing
environmental of infrastructure policies that influence development location or
cost, and/or changing local zoning or land use regulations.</P>

<P>The model does not yet have linkage with air quality or transportation
models.  However, the University of California at Berkeley is working to provide
these linkages in later versions. </P>

<P>Obviously, the model could be extremely helpful in overcoming the current
deficiencies in land use modeling.  However, most of the transportation models
currently available will not be as &quot;clever&quot; as this model.  It is also
imperative that the land use and transportation models be interactive, so that
feedback effects can be incorporated.  The air quality models will use the land
use and transportation models as inputs for straight emissions calculations, so
the result will only be as good as the land use and transportation models. </P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Northeastern Illinois Planning Commission</STRONG><BR>Land
Use-Based Transportation Control Measures That Promote Non-Auto Travel: A Clean
Air Guide for Local Officials</P>

<P>This is an extremely helpful piece of work that gives environmental benefits
based on actual, rather than modeled, data.  It goes over air quality
improvements derived from several types of improvements, including bicycle
programs, sidewalks and walkways, easements that encourage connections between
adjacent and normally complementary land uses, parking management, and
telecommuting.  The main discussion this paper is concerned with is land use
plans and ordinances. </P>

<P>They gauge the effects of three types of land use management:</P>
<UL>
 <LI>Balanced development</LI>
 <LI>Transit oriented development</LI>
 <LI>Development timing</LI></UL>

<P>The first two have been discussed and summarized elsewhere in this report;
the third is similar to Montgomery County's Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance
which ensures development will not outpace the facilities (water and sewer,
transportation, public services such as police, fire, and education, and so on)
necessary to support the development.</P>

<P>Specifically, they hope to find air quality effects from dense (or &quot;intense&quot;)
residental and commercial development. They also mention, but do not survey, &quot;activity
centers,&quot; development that is mixed use rather than a strictly separated
residential and commercial.</P>

<P>Their results from dense office development were derived from surveys &quot;...conducted
of two businesses that had moved from suburban locations with adequate free
parking to more intensely developed areas without free parking.  The surveys
were designed to compare travel patterns before and after the move was made.&quot;
(14)</P>

<P>At one firm, &quot;virtually all of the employees drove to work, but since
the move they all take the train.  It is estimated that changes in the work trip
resulted in the saving of more than 2,800 VMT per week.&quot; (15)  These
results are from a firm of only 91 employees.  The savings amount to nearly
150,000 VMT per year.  Compared to the total VMT in the Chicago area, this is
probably not even a drop in the bucket.  However, it cannot be dismissed so
easily.  Multiply this effect by 100 firms of the same size and 15 million VMT
per year are saved, not to mention the untold number of trips.  The Northeast
Illinois Planning Commission translated this to an annual emmissions reduction
of 1231 pounds of hydrocarbons and over 1228 pounds of nitrogen oxides.</P>

<P>They also ran a demonstration program for dense residential development.  &quot;[S]urveys
were conducted of residents in two relatively new high rise buildings&quot; in
locations convenient to transit. (16)  The surveys inquired as to changes in
travel patterns as well as mode for both work and non- work trips since moving
into the buildings.  The results below are for 290 units in the two buildings.</P>

<P>The number of work trips reduced was estimated to be 17,100 per year;
work-trip VMT was reduced by 466,650 per year.  This translated to an annual
hydrocarbon reduction of 2030 pounds and a nitrogen oxide reduction of 1413
pounds.</P>

<P>Non-work trips were reduced by 10,600 per year, and VMT by 53,800 per year. 
This came down to 604 pounds per year of hydrocarbons and 221 pounds of nitrogen
oxides removed from the atmosphere from non-work trips.</P>

<P>Again, while these numbers do not seem like much in the context of the total
Northeastern Illinois planning area (over 2600 pounds total of hydrocarbons;
1600 of nitrogen oxides), this was only the result of 290 apartments being
filled with people who changed their travel behavior based on their new
residence.  Lasting progress in improving air quality will not be made in one
fell swoop, but rather in small, almost negligible, increments like these.  They
cannot, and should not, be dismissed simply because they do not solve the entire
problem by themselves.</P>

<P>Also noteworthy is the appendix explaining how they derived the emissions
reductions: not only were cold starts and hot soaks counted, but the differing
levels of emissions resulting from varying temperatures were as well.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Washington Regional Network for Transportation, Land Use, and Air
Quality</STRONG><BR>The New Approach: Integrating Transportation and
Development in the National Capital Region,&quot; November 18, 1992 (DRAFT).</P>

<P>This group bases transportation decisions on three primary goals:</P>
<UL>
 <LI> Use existing transportation systems more efficiently;</LI>
 <LI> Make transit, bike, and pedestrian investment a higher priority, and;</LI>
 <LI>Organize new residential and business development around urban and town
centers, instead of continuing sprawl.</LI>
</UL>

<P>The current conditions making their goals unattainable are:</P>
<UL>
 <LI>Jobs and services are separated from residences;</LI>
 <LI>Highway capability is concentrated in a few major corridors, forcing
everyone there;</LI>
 <LI>Current planning, zoning, etc. encourages auto travel.</LI>
</UL>

<P>Jobs and housing should be balanced in all the major jurisdictions. 
Emphasize telecommuting centers.  </P>

<P>Most of this is the same argument repeated: higher density, emphasize
alternative modes of transportation, etc.  But, it does get interesting
approximately halfway through page 29, where they recommend specific additions
to the regional transportation network.  Several of their recommendations for
Maryland are being evaluated in Montgomery County's Transitway and High-
Occupancy Vehicle Network Master Plan currently in progress.</P>

<P>They also make it clear where they stand on a very thorny question, that of
how to justify certain transit options without the required density to be
served.  They state on page 29: &quot;While at first glance some of these
projects may appear to serve lightly populated areas, transit-oriented
development is proposed around these lines to enhance their feasibility.&quot;</P>

<P>Basically, their recommendations consist of increased transit service to a
much greater part of the region.  A good deal of their proposed transitways are
light rail, but some are express bus service or a dedicated busway.</P>

<P>The authors also deal with funding for the myriad projects they suggest. 
Here, they stress that automobile use is currently subsidized by various
measures &Auml; gas prices are artificially low, parking is, for many, free. 
(On this point, see also MacKenzie, Dower, and Chen, 1992; Hanson, 1992;
Congressional Budget Office, 1992).  The Washington Regional Network states, &quot;Experts
have calculated that the real costs of driving, if totted up at the gas pump,
could raise the price of gasoline by several dollars a gallon.&quot; (33) 
Unfortunately, the group does not cite the experts (the report has no
bibliography), but at least we can see where their argument is coming from. 
Further, the authors state that a mere one cent per gallon gas tax would cover
Metro's $30 million operating expense deficit per year.</P>

<P>Later, they mention HOV as a &quot;Trojan Horse,&quot; and enumerate the
problems with it: it keeps people in cars, expansion of HOV roads can force
aside any possible pedestrian/bicycle changes, HOV lanes can easily revert to
general use lanes (such as on the Dulles Toll Road), and they encourage suburban
sprawl.  They also list many improvements to bicycle paths that should be
undertaken.</P>

<P>Overall, the paper does not list much that is startling or new, but it does
merit reading if only for detailing the relationship of these ideas to the
National Capital region.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>United States Department of Transportation and Environmental
Protection Agency</STRONG><BR>Clean Air Through Transportation: Challenges in
Meeting National Air Quality Standards</P>

<P>This report is in response to Section 108(f)(3) of the Clean Air Act
Amendment.  There, the CAA mandates that the EPA submit a report to Congress
every three years (beginning January 1, 1993).  In this report, EPA should: (a)
review and analyze State and local air quality transportation programs
(specifically, whether funding is available to complete the programs by the
deadline in the State's implementation plan); (b) evaluate whether DOT programs
will achieve the goals of the CAA; and (c) recommend any changes necessary to
ensure the goals set by the CAA are met.</P>

<P>Emphasizes modeling shortcomings in this area: &quot;Transportation models
were not designed to develop emissions estimates, and most transportation and
emissions models rely on approximations that only yield accurate predictions
within certain parameters.&quot;  (5)  </P>

<P>&quot;TCMs must be part of a balanced transportation plan that meets both
air quality and mobility objectives.  However, based on preliminary indications,
the traditional methods of altering transportation behavior by offering
alternatives have not yet been shown to significantly reduce emissions.&quot;
(16-17)</P>

<P>Jurisdictions should emphasize &quot;economic/market-based TCMs, such as
congestion pricing, increases in parking prices, emissions charges, etc., which
show greater emission reduction potential.&quot; (18)</P>

<P ALIGN="RIGHT"><A HREF="#top">top</A>

<A NAME="tbd"></A>

<H2>Transit-Based Development</H2>

<P>Articles in this group include those studying the influence of increased
density on transit usage as well as what is known as the neotraditional
development.  It should be warned, however, that every article on neotraditional
planning does not necessarily translate to an article on increased transit
usage.  The term is used so often that it has become a broad brush delineating
not only the layout and design of streets and an emphasis on a town center, but
also architectural niceties which, while interesting, have no place in a
transportation discussion.  Articles describing neotraditional developments in
process around the country proliferate by the month, as do those articles
wishing to explain survey results of owners living in neotraditional
developments.  </P>
<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Michael Bernick</STRONG><BR>The Bay Area's Emerging Transit-Based
Housing</P>

<P>The San Francisco Bay area has an extensive transit network with 91 rail
stations.  For some time, these stations have been surrounded by large parking
lots and/or mixes of low-density commercial and residential development. 
Recently, developers interested in projects around transit stations have emerged
with plans for housing and retail developments with greater density.</P>

<P>Bernick makes an interesting point regarding the socioeconomic status of
transit-based housing dwellers: </P>

<P>While many see transit-based housing as aimed at families of modest means,
most of the Bay Area projects have been market rate, with several geared toward
the luxury market.  The only subsidized units, in fact, have been in
mixed-income projects, which generally have a mix of 80 percent market-rate
units to 20 percent subsidized units. (39)</P>

<P>And crucial for this discussion is the level of transit ridership:</P>

<P>Among all East Bay residents, approximately 8 percent use BART regularly for
their commutes; transit ridership among transit-based housing residents averaged
over 35 percent. (41)</P>

<P>This fact is even more impressive when realized that &quot;transit-based
housing residents&quot; entails only those within 1/4 mile of the station: every
single one of these people walks to the station, rather than drives.  Bernick
emphasizes this point as well: </P>

<P>Since the 'cold start' is the main contributor to air pollution, the
commuter who drives two miles to a BART station contributes almost as much
pollution as the commuter who drives eight miles to work.  With transit-based
housing, the cold start is eliminated. (41)</P>

<P>With this fact in hand, &quot;the Bay Area Air Quality Management District
has placed land development policies for motor vehicle trip reduction at the top
of its agenda.&quot; (41)</P>
<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE">

<P><STRONG>Ruth Steiner</STRONG><BR>Residential Density and Travel Patterns:
A Review of the Literature and Methodological Approach</P>

<P>This paper does not present the results of a report.  First, it goes over
some fundamental issues dealing with the relationship between increased density
and travel patterns.  Then, it presents the methodology for a future study
aiming to determine precisely this relationship without the normal questions
about whether income, for instance, acts as an intervening variable.  That is,
to find whether high densities cause increased travel by transit or if people
who travel by transit locate themselves in higher densities.  </P>

<P>This effort to weed out the intervening variables, if carried out in a sound
fashion, would prove quite valuable.  The only trouble with such research is
that opponents of such developments, and opponents of transit, can state with
some logical foundation that studies like this are valid only for the study
area.  Whether there is a national measure of the extent of support
mixed-use/high- density development lends to transit remains to be seen. 
However, should this study succeed, at least people in other jurisdictions
around the country will have a precedent and a pattern to follow for their own
study.  Another difficulty with translating this study's results to other
jurisdictions lies in the definitions of &quot;mixed-use&quot; and &quot;high-density,&quot;
although the latter lends itself to easier characterization than the former.</P>

<P>Practically speaking, other jurisdictions may have trouble duplicating her
study because of a quirk of human nature.  When asked on surveys, people do not
like to reveal their income.  If the survey insists on including income as a
question, the response rate for the survey drops dramatically, thus increasing
the cost of obtaining a reasonably sized sample.  This occurred in the
metropolitan Washington area (see MCPD TRAVEL/2 documentation) and the
transportation model was forced to use household type and auto ownership as
surrogate variables.</P>

<P>She also makes the valid point, as did
