[%- META
      menu_choice = 'projects'
      page_title = 'Writing: The Link Between Land Use and Air Quality' -%]

<P>&nbsp;</P>

    <DIV ALIGN="CENTER">
    <TABLE BORDER="1" BGCOLOR="#FFFFE0">
     <TR ALIGN="LEFT"><TD>
      <UL>
       <LI>Main Paper</LI>
       <LI><A HREF="/writing/lutraq-bib.html">Bibliography</A></LI>
       <LI><A HREF="/writing/lutraq-annot.html">Annotated Bibliography</A></LI>
      </UL>
     </TD></TR>
    </TABLE>
    </DIV>

<H1 ALIGN="CENTER">The Link Between Land Use and Air Quality</H1>

<H3>by Laura Bachle and Chris Winters</H3>

<P>For most of the country's large metropolitan regions, 1999 is the year in
which EPA expects attainment of the ozone air quality standard, with State
Implementation Plans detailing how the 1999 target will be met due to EPA in
November of 1994.  Land use as a control measure for air pollution has been
discussed and debated for years, although only marginally.  However, now that
attainment deadlines loom, jurisdictions are looking more closely at the link
between land use and air quality.  This paper presents a summary of the debate
to date based on an extensive literature review and discusses a rationale for
advancing research on the linkage.  </P>

<P>The link between land use and air quality is not a new issue (Air
Conservation Commission, 1965), but has achieved more attention in large part
due to the Clean Air Act (CAA) of 1990 and the Intermodal Surface Transportation
Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991.  The ISTEA addresses land use directly:
jurisdictions are mandated to &quot;consider&quot; the effects of land use on
transportation as part of the air quality conformity determination, which has to
be completed in order to qualify for federal transportation funds. 
Transportation measures constitute approximately 40 pages of the 800 page Clean
Air Act.  by comparison, the first Clean Air Act, in 1970, was only 65 pages
long (Hawthorn, 1991, 17).</P>

<P>As part of the discussion, it is important to define the terms used by the
different participants.  &quot;Land use control measures&quot; are identified in
the CAA, but are not defined.  As used by the Metropolitan Washington Council of
Governments (MWCOG) and other Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs), land
use control measures include such items as increasing densities in the urban
core, establishing an urban growth boundary (see Easley, 1992) or requiring
ancillary services as part of development approval.  They do not include such
items as establishing Transportation Management Districts, or building
additional subway stations.  These are considered Transportation Control
Measures (TCMs).   This paper addresses land use control measures. (Clifford,
1991; Carr and Marsh, 1990.) </P>

<P>On the surface, the relationship between land use and air quality seems
quite logical: if land use has a link with transportation, and if transportation
has an effect on air quality, then the link between land use and air quality
exists intuitively.  That is, if land use planning measures can decrease the
number and/or distance of automobile trips, then these same measures can also
reduce the pollution produced by automobiles.  While the authors of this paper
have found no scholarly literature that directly counters this assertion, other
arguments against using land use as an air pollution control measure can be
summarized into four broad categories:</P>

<UL>
 <LI> Land use measures would take too long to implement to have any effect
(DeCorla-Souza and Schoeneburg, 1992);</LI>
 <LI> Land use measures are thinly veiled attempts at social engineering on a
grander scale, not only in traffic reduction but other socioeconomic
transformations.  Such over-ambitious attempts are doomed to fail (Bae and
Richardson 1993);</LI>
 <LI> Land use measures would not have enough of an effect to be cost-effective;</LI>

 <LI> Other types of changes, primarily technological, can improve air quality
quicker, more effectively, and more directly than land use modifications (Bae
and Richardson, 1993).</LI>
</UL>

<H2>The &quot;Queen Mary&quot; Phenomenon</H2>

<P>The first argument, that land use measures, like a transatlantic ship, would
take too long to &quot;turn around,&quot; is supported in one respect by the
fact that the CAA has milestones for attainment which make the practical
application of land use measures very difficult.  Many large metropolitan areas
are classified as either &quot;serious&quot; or &quot;severe&quot; ozone
non-attainment areas.  The first milestone for serious non-attainment regions, a
plan for reduction of certain ozone precursor pollutants by 15% by 1996, was due
to EPA by November 15, 1993.  The second, attainment of the air quality standard
by 1999, is due November 15, 1994.  Severe areas have an additional six years to
demonstrate attainment.  If a jurisdiction is operating with a largely developed
land area, opportunities to steer a new course through land use are limited in
the first place.  They are further constrained by the institutional reluctance
to change land use conditions.  If a non-attainment area encompasses more than
one jurisdiction with land use decision-making, issues of economic
competitiveness and growth potential cloud implementation.  The long lead times
and even longer response times remove from consideration almost entirely land
use measures as a means to attain CAA standards by 1999 or 2005.</P>

<P>&quot;Almost, but not quite...&quot; responds the Environmental Defense Fund
and others involved in the debate.  They point to some measures that could be
enacted immediately and show some contribution toward milestone reductions. 
Among these, pedestrian and transit-oriented design (often inaccurately lumped
under one term, &quot;neotraditional&quot;), some transit-based development
(including adaptive reuse projects, Single Room Occupancy projects, and
accessory dwelling unit policies), and ordinances that encourage home-based work
and telecommuting (Bernick, 1993; M-NCPPC, 1993; Smith, 1988).  These measures
could be enacted immediately because they do not interfere with jurisdictional
control over land-use decisions and do not require long lead times to implement.
 However, of the measures used as examples by EDF and others, only pedestrian
and transit-oriented design have been documented showing air pollution
reductions, and even these results are not widespread or consistent enough to
state categorically they will always fulfill this promise.  Such design measures
are part of the LUTRAQ demonstration project in Portland, Oregon, which will
examine air quality effects.</P>

<H2>Social Engineering</H2>

<P>The Environmental Defense Fund's rigorous promotion of land use measures
highlights another point.  Several articles and scholarly works point out that
the &quot;clean air bandwagon&quot; is being used by everyone from petroleum
companies and power plants to NIMBYs and no-growthers.  This is true.  Groups
often use air quality to advance their own causes.  Even planning agencies
promote land use practices under the guise of better air quality.  This does not
mean that the motivations are misguided.  There are excellent reasons to promote
certain land use practices and cleaning the air may be one of the reasons. 
However, claiming them as air pollution control measures carries with it a
certain understanding in CAA parlance.  It means the measures can demonstrate
actual achievement of emissions reductions in a certain predictable way and in a
certain timeframe.  It also means that the measures can be enforced.  Since
research in the planning field has not been prolific on the topic, it is
questionable to advance any land use measure based on air quality arguments
alone, especially for ozone non-attainment areas.  It is probably even a
mistake, at this point, to make any claims for better air quality due to a new
plan or a new form of zoning.  This is not because these measures may not make
the air better, it is because we cannot prove that they do.  The demonstration,
via modeling, is not advanced enough to make such claims (Harvey and Deakin,
1991).</P>

<P>Modeling for air quality has not yet reached the stage of sophistication now
possible for water quality.  In addition, the domain of air quality models are
orders of magnitude larger than any other environmental model currently used for
land use decision-making.  In order to perform the same analysis for air quality
as is currently practiced for water quality, the air quality model would have to
interact with a transportation model and a land use model, and would have to
model the entire ozone nonattainment area.  One of the difficulties with this
lies in the nature of ozone-producing pollutants: although they may be generated
locally, their effects can be felt many miles away.   (The CAA has a special
section that identifies an ozone transport region that encompasses the east
coast from Virginia to Maine.)  </P>

<P>So, in addition to a highly complex air quality model, the intricacies of
transportation modeling and the logic leaps of land use forecasting have to be
reconciled.  Such work is being done, but outside of the LUTRAQ demonstration
project, there have been very few results so far ((Northeastern Illinois
Planning Commission, 1993).  Therefore, claims that land use measures will
improve air quality should be approached with some skepticism and a search for
ulterior motives.</P>

<H2>&quot;Cost-Effective&quot;</H2>

<P>The argument against using land use measures for air quality attainment
because it is not cost- effective is an economical quicksand.  The authors have
found literature on the topic to be scarce, obtuse, and lacking in rigorous
scrutiny by economists.  Arguments that use this body of research share the same
shortcomings as the research itself.  It is inconclusive, often based on figures
derived more from ideological opposition than from fact.  To some extent, the
fluid and hidden nature of transportation costs and benefits are to blame.  An
unbiased assessment of how land use measures stack up against other control
measures from an economic perspective would be a very welcome addition to the
debate. </P>

<P>Certain examples give some credence to the argument that land use measures
are not cost- effective.   However, it does not appear to be true of all land
use measures, especially when compared to the ever-increasing expense of
stationary source controls.  Various MPOs have tried to compute a dollar figure
that reflects the cost of various measures per ton of pollution, including some
land-use measures.  The Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments (MWCOG)
has not attempted to quantify the latter, but some of their cost figures on
other pollution-reduction methods are instructive.  They estimated a $4.4
million/ton capital cost figure for establishing adult and child care centers at
Metrorail stations, and a $300,000/ton capital cost figure for building
sidewalks and bike paths near commercial and retail centers.  This compares to a
$16,000 to $500,000/ton cost per year for reformulating solvents.  Although it
is not always the case, there is some evidence, based on MWCOG's analysis, that
the cost of stationary control measures approximates that of many land use
control measures.  The difference lies in who signs the check and how long the
costs are carried into the future. </P>

<H2>Future Research</H2>

<P>The last argument against using land use for air pollution control leads
into a broader discussion of where all this analysis is headed.  So far, it is
probably correct to assert that most other control measures are more effective
than land use on cleaning the air.  However, the real issue is how many more
technological fixes do we have left before we run out, and will there be enough
to counteract the continued growth in pollutants as population increases?  The
CAA was signed into law in part because, despite tremendous gains from previous
legislation, the nation continued to have stubborn air quality problems.  Growth
may eventually catch up and exceed the benefit of each technological gain.  </P>

<P>Given the deadlines mandated in the current CAA, it is unlikely that
anything but the types of control measures currently being promoted by MPOs
around the country would achieve the quantity of reductions needed to reach
attainment.  It is the requirement to maintain attainment that becomes the
central issue in the analysis of land use controls.  In this regard, we are once
again back to the modeling.  If the modeling were sophisticated enough, it might
be possible to demonstrate that land use practices instituted over the last ten
years have effectively &quot;changed the course&quot; toward attainment in some
regions.  As models become more refined, it may be possible to test different
land use measures to see how well they achieve air quality objectives.  However,
procedures used to date are not refined enough on which to base any major
decisions. (USDOT and EPA, 1993; Czernick and DeCorla-Souza, 1992)</P>

<P>Some may argue that proper land use during the rapid post-World War II
growth would have negated, or at least minimized, the need for drastic
pollution-reducing actions today.  Then again, perhaps technological measures
will always arrive in time &quot;fix&quot; the problem.  However, if they do
not, land use measures will be needed that possess the possibility of bringing
about deep and permanent change in emissions.  Such a change will have a
profound effect on the urban form.  If these changes are needed, the decision
should be based on the most rigorous scientific research the field is capable of
supporting.  Unfortunately, at this time the research is beyond both the time
frame of the CAA as well as the program and budget capabilities of most
Metropolitan Planning Organizations.</P>

<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE" WIDTH="50%" ALIGN="LEFT">
<P>Laura Bachle is an environmental planner and Chris Winters is a research
analyst at the Maryland- National Capital Park and Planning Commission in
Montgomery County, MD</P>
<HR NOSHADE="NOSHADE" WIDTH="50%" ALIGN="LEFT">
