[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'A big hole' -%]

<h1>A big hole</h1>

<p><a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/cwinters/3136790558/"
title="Big hug by Chris Winters, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3079/3136790558_318102c51e_m.jpg"
width="240" height="160" alt="Big hug" align="right" /></a>

<p>First: happy birthday Ella! We had her first second birthday
party last Saturday (the 20th, lots of kids and friends) and will
have another at Barb's grandmother's tomorrow (family). You are a
wonderful child, we couldn't have dreamed you up.</p>

<p>Next, a size update: at her two-year checkup she got all her
measurements taken. She's been pretty consistent in her
height/weight ratio throughout her life, and she's now up to 35.5
inches (90%), 31.5 pounds (95%), and her melon is 50 cm around
(95%). She's a healthy girl.</p>

<p>Finally, some rambling. I'm only one or two New Yorkers
behind, and I recently started into the Dec 15th issue, eager to
read the <a
href="http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2008/12/15/081215fa_fact_gladwell?yrail">Malcolm
Gladwell article</a> on the difficulties in predicting success
for certain professions. (Worth it.)</p>

<p>I got through that article with only two interruptions, and my
last shot of time was only enough to finish the Gladwell article,
skim the movie reviews and read the first sentence of the
piece following Gladwell's. It's a wonderful one:</p>

<blockquote>
The trick in foraging for a tooth lost in coffee grounds is not
to be misled by the clumps.
</blockquote>

<p>I finished the rest of the article a day or so later. It's
deceptively simple but, as Barb put it, its choice of details is
poetic. (She is all about details these days.) The story is about
what happens after a woman my age, a mother, dies suddenly and
without warning. The author, her father, and his wife move from
Long Island to suburban Washington, DC to help raise the three
kids (7, 5, and 23 months).</p>

<p>Surprising tears welled up while reading. Few parents haven't
thought about what would happen to their kids if they simply
dropped dead? There are some things you can do to control this:
eat well, exercise, don't drive like a maniac. But, like the
woman in the article who had an asymptomatic and very rare heart
condition, at times you're helpless.</p>

<p>When I was single nobody really depended on me. Sure, my
family loved me and would be crushed if I fell off the earth, but
their practical lives wouldn't have been greatly changed.</p>

<p>Marriage changes this, more than you realize beforehand. But
even then it's a dependency of an adult, and that void can recede
over time and be at least partially filled in by another. (It's
also your responsibility as primary breadwinner to get insured,
but that's another show.)</p>

<p>Then came Ella, and a big hole opened inside me and has yet to
be filled. It probably won't be until Ella's an adult. That hole
is her future I wouldn't be a part of were I gone.</p>

<p>Most capabilities of a father can be replaced, even those of a
mother. But what can't be is the knowledge that there's more
tying you to the earth and its inhabitants than mutual
agreements, and two of the strongest ties are a mom and dad who
love you unconditionally.</p>

<!-- Tags: ella; parenthood; birthday; death -->
