[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Results of demo, ugly reporting hack' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">January 29, 2001</span>
</p>
<h1>Results of demo, ugly reporting hack</h1>

<p>I love Perl: <a
href="http://search.cpan.org/doc/METZZO/Java-2.1/Java.pm">
check out</a>
some <a
href="http://search.cpan.org/doc/JTOBEY/Emacs-EPL-0.1/lib/Emacs/Lisp.pm">cool
stuff</a> people are doing. The fact that Perl can be a glue
for so many different things is (IMO) amazing.

<p>Today was the demo that's been sucking up 12+ hour days
for the last couple of weeks. Things went great -- we didn't
have everything done, but everything that was there worked
like it was supposed to. My boss and I created a nice (but
ugly) hack: call a servlet with the right parameters; the
parameters are passed to a command-line Win32 app which
feeds them to a Crystal Reports engine and a report template
which prints out the report to the default printer which has
to be setup beforehand to pipe the output to ghostscript
which saves the data to a file which is then sent directly
to the browser.

<p>U-G-L-Y you ain't got no alibi!

<p>All of this could have been avoided if Crystal's engine
wasn't so retarded. Closed-source sucks.

<p>Anyway, we're using a number of open-source technologies
(the previously mentioned JBoss, XMLC, and Tomcat) and the
management (surprisingly) seemed very cool with this.
Particularly when we told them that, in theory, the beans
could be ported to a mega-expensive proprietary platform
(read: Weblogic) if the client really wants.

<p>So now we just see what happens and how much we'll start
moving to Java + middleware from VB + client-server. I
suspect that we can develop quickly enough (particularly
with two or three more smart people) that the higher-ups
would be astonished how much functionality we can replicate
from the existing system within, say, six months.

<p>Reading note: been going over <a
href="http://www1.fatbrain.com/asp/bookinfo/bookinfo.asp?theisbn=0201485672&vm=">Refactoring</a>
by Martin Fowler (et al). What a great book.

<p>More soon on OpenInteract stuff, too. Things are hitting
on all cylinders programming-wise right now. Nice
feeling.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=37">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: programming -->
