[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Rewind last few Java entries' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">November 1, 2002</span>
</p>
<h1>Rewind last few Java entries</h1>

<b>Open Source Diversity</b> - <a
href="http://radio.weblogs.com/0105897/2002/10/31.html#a37">Andres expanded</a>
his point a little more. I still disagree -- if we had five application
frameworks in five years, that tells me there are five domains distinct and
robust enough to maintain and enhance separate frameworks. I like the
comparison with marriage, though :-) (BTW: <a
href="http://www.eyde.net/index.do?date=20021031#080326">Niel</a> has a comment
on this as well. Nice site.) 

<p>For my <b>plate of crow</b>: due to <a
href="http://freeroller.net/page/cbeust">Cedric's</a> gentle nudging regarding
<a href="/News/show/?news_id=263">editors</a> I've tried out the early access
release of IDEA. I think I'm in love. This IDE is amazing -- the usability is
great (including emacs keybindings), and every time I've wondered about a
particular feature I'm delighted to find it already in there. The only things I
miss are the magic emacs tab and being able to have longer keymapping
combinations. (Ctrl-C Ctrl-V Ctrl-(C|B|R) is still hardwired into my
fingers...) This may become a permanent part of my toolbox. I'm not even that
concerned about the additional time it's eating up :-)</p>  

<p>I also tried Eclipse but with very different results. I don't know if I've
configured something wrong or what, but I'm hopelessly confused trying to
configure a project and the some of the language they use to describe things --
"Perspective", "View" -- is ambiguous at best. This seems like a tool where I
need someone who knows it sitting over my shoulder for an hour while I get my
feet wet. I don't have any such person handy.</p> 

<p>And finally, now that I've been actually <b>using JSP</b> for a bit I have
to agree with Niel: <a
href="http://www.eyde.net/index.do?date=20021028#220633">JSP is not evil</a>.
It has the <b>potential</b> for evil, but so does any templating system that
allows code. (Even the <a href="http://www.template-toolkit.org/">Template
Toolkit</a> allows this.) All it takes is discipline, which is exactly what I
tell people who say that Perl is unmaintainable :-)</p>

<!-- Tags: java -->
