[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Collections now SPOPS, banner ads' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">May 30, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>Collections now SPOPS, banner ads</h1>

<p>Collections are now known as SPOPS, or Simple Perl Object
Persistence with Security. (Although I'm working on the
security right now :)

<p>SPOPS aims to be storage-mechanism independent, although
almost all of the work so far has been done with the DBI
backend. (I've used both Sybase and MySQL with it, and
porting it to a different db should be pretty easy, as long
as they support a the <tt>$sth-&gt;{TYPE}</tt> and
<tt>{NAME}</tt> interface
and you can reasonably abstract out an ID-generation
mechanism. (Sequences, for instance, should not be a problem
at all.)) I'm hoping to implement the User/Group stuff not
only using the DBI interface but also LDAP, which would be
neat-o. (It would also likely expose some subconscious
design decisions influenced by my RDBMS mentality...)

<p>They're now fairly well extricated from the other
projects that were using them, which should make it easier
for me to consolidate the three or four versions that are
floating around my <tt>~/work</tt> directory. I think I'm
going to upgrade my website to use them later on today so I
can test out the user/group stuff.

<p>They are also much easier to use now, thanks to <a
href="http://www.advogato.org/person/kuro5hin/">Rusty's</a>
prodding. Instead of forcing you to use get/set accessor
methods for an object, the data are now in a tied hash, so
you can simply do: <tt>$user-&gt;{first_name} = 'Chris'</tt>
to set information and then do <tt>$user-&gt;save;</tt> to
save the user object. No context switching, and using a tied
hash means that you can interpolate the values into strings
(or templates...) without a second thought. Cool.

<p>You can nab them, along with a
working-and-rapidly-developing banner ad management system
that uses them (called AdHomonym), at <a
href="http://www.adhomonym.org/">the AdHomonym website</a>.
I'm not quite ready to put them up on CPAN yet. Once I get
an LDAP interface written and reasonably tested (or maybe
re-port the interface to GDBM files from a six-month old
project), then I'll feel decent about it.

<p>Anyway, demos of the ad system coming soon.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=2">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
