[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Wireless timesink, filters' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">September 11, 2001</span>
</p>
<h1>Wireless timesink, filters</h1>

<p>Massive amounts of time wasted trying to get wireless up
and running, but admittedly most of it's my fault since I
didn't do the proper research before a hasty purchase. I
knew that my hardware (Linksys pcmcia and pcmcia + pci
adapter) worked ok, but I didn't know about all this AP/base
station/etc. stuff that's necessary to get a
workstation/gateway to act as a wireless access point. My
bad. And since it's still relatively young, the whole <a
href="http://www.linux-wlan.com/">Linux wireless LAN</a>
community still has the feel of an underground cadre, so you
really have to search for information and even then you only
get a few touches/glimpses of the elephant. Exhausting.

<p>Had some excellent ideas for a relatively simple (but
powerful) <a href="http://www.advogato.org/proj/OpenInteract/">OpenInteract</a> improvement -- filters.
Specify that a particular action should always be filtered,
or should conditionally be filtered, and a simple API lets
authors manipulate the text (or links, or whatever) as they
wish. Thus it would be simple to create a 'wikify' filter
that highlighted all WikiLike terms, or a filter that
censors bad words, or a filter that does spell-checking,
or...

<p>Still a little stuck in general, but I think I'm coming
out of it.


<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=73">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: programming -->
