[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Doco crazy' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">August 2, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>Doco crazy</h1>

<p>Documentation <b>crazy</b> today (tomorrow too). One of
the unfortunate (in a sense) things about writing
documentation for a system you wrote has to be that in the
course of explaining something in terms that someone else
can understand, you get ideas for new/improved features for
what you've already developed. It's a vicious cycle!

<p>One of the ideas spurred from the fact that OpenInteract
could actually be a <b>product</b>, but I hadn't thought
much about this in the past. But today CP mentioned that a
german company that builds content management systems is
putting out some feelers. So I asked myself, "How are people
going to distribute new packages? How are we going to
distribute upgrades?" And everything sprouts from that:
distribution (needs to be in one file), file locations (need
to be standardized), configuration (need to break the
monolithic config file into chunks) and all sorts of other
things. Very useful.

<p>In addition, I think there's a real learning curve that
you go through when developing something that will be used
by any number of people, all of whom you do not know and
will not have contact with except for your README file and
other documentation. The assumptions that you have regarding
other software you install must be made explicit so you can
anticipate questions people have.

<p>That said, people won't read what you write. <a
href="http://www.advogato.org/person/kuro5hin/">Rusty</a> has this problem with
Scoop -- bunches of people email him asking a question
explicitly answered in the documentation. If you send back a
terse 'RTFM', people think you're an asshole. If you take
the time to answer them, you'll be doing nothing else. It's
not so bad if the dingdongs think you're an asshole, but if
that starts floating around and taking on a life of its own,
then people who might be valuable developers may simply find
another project to do. 

<p>Back to work.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=13">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: programming -->
