[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'MJD on Class::Observable and false trade-offs' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">June 30, 2006</span>
</p>
<h1>MJD on Class::Observable and false trade-offs</h1>

<p>(aka, "at least he said I'm competent!")</p>

<p>Back in April Mark-Jason Dominus visited Pittsburgh in support of
his upcoming book <a href="http://perl.plover.com/flagbook/">Perl
Program Repair Shop and Red Flags</a>.[1] Actually, "in support"
doesn't quite capture his intent. Instead of a typical process where
the author dictates from his experience about X technology or Y
methodology, MJD is creating a book showing standard programming and
design mistakes people make and how you can fix them. It's similar to
refactoring but the focus is on real-world problems rather than the
standard examples (bonus calculations, calculators, scoring games,
etc.).</p>

<p>The announcement to the group asked people to send in their code
for MJD to fix up. Of course nobody did, I think partly because a lot
of code people work on is internal and they're not sure whether it
can/should be shared with the world. And partly because nobody likes
to see their code torn up in front of a group of people, much less in
a book where it'll be preserved forever.</p>

<p>In the absence of volunteered code MJD scoured the CPAN directories
of pgh.pm members, finding 
<a href="http://search.cpan.org/~cwinters/Class-Observable-1.04/">Class::Observable</a>
which fit the bill very nicely:</p>
  
<ul>
  <li>what it does is easily understood,</li>
  <li>there's only one file to review, and</li>
  <li>the non-POD LOC is around 225.</li>
</ul>
  
<p>We didn't know what he was going to review beforehand, and I came
in as they were passing out paper copies of the code, just before he
started. I sat down and looked at the paper: 'Observable.pm'. "Aww,
shit," I muttered, just loud enough for the person next to me to
hear. At least I didn't have time to worry about it beforehand.</p>

<p>Now he's <a href="http://www.plover.com/blog/prs/objects.html">written up</a> 
a good summary of what he said at the meeting. It sounds more painful
than it was, honest. Partly because I haven't touched
Class::Observable in a while, partly because he was straightforward
and professional (non-personal) about it, and partly because I think I
took it in the spirit it was intended.</p>

<p>A couple of the questions he had were easily answered. But the main
problem he has with the class is that it doesn't use the object to
store data about the object. This is so common-sense that it shouldn't
even bear repeating, right? It's a little murkier than that, as he
alludes to in the writeup. (The fact that he made the same mistake in
something he wrote was comforting.)</p>

<p>The real reason I didn't use the object was that I did not want to
touch the object. At all. Why not? My original thought was that I
didn't want to assume anything about the object's implementation. This
is something you need to worry about in Perl that you don't with
languages that are built around OO. Since an object is just a
reference with metadata about where it belongs, and a reference can be
a scalar, array or hash, you can't assume a way to store object
data.</p>

<p>But you <b>can</b> assume methods, which is the whole point of the
object anyway. And as Mark showed in his implementation, all you need
to do is define a default behavior for the common case
(object-as-hashref) and let people implement their own uncommon cases
by providing method hooks for them to do so. It's a much clearer
implementation and makes a lot more sense.</p>

<p>So my reluctance to touch the object was really a type of cargo
cult behavior[2]: You can't depend on object implementations so don't
put anything in the object. Instead of thinking about the general
problem and the best implementation I didn't even consider a set of
solutions because "you don't do that" -- a false trade-off. It's
humbling when you realize this sort of behavior in yourself; I don't
think I'd make the same mistake today, but maybe I already have and
just don't realize it yet.</p>

<p>[1] I <a href="http://use.perl.org/~perrin/journal/30102">heard</a> 
he did this same talk at YAPC 2006 a few days ago. Hopefully he didn't
use my absence to be harsher than he was in Pittsburgh :-)</p>

<p>[2] I seem to remember a great writeup of this from MJD's blog,
maybe somewhere else, but I can't find it now. If you have a link
please send it on.</p>


<!-- Tags: patterns; perl; programming -->
