[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Power of open source' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">September 21, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>Power of open source</h1>

<p>How many people have accidentally typed in
'www.advogato.org/dairy/' instead of '/diary/'? Wouldn't it
be funny if one day you saw a cow there instead of a 404?

<p>Word has come down from the mount: OpenInteract (and
SPOPS) shall be open source by Thursday (Sep 28). I'm not
celebrating just yet (still haven't settled on a license,
but leaning strongly toward Artistic/GPL for the core
framework), but this is deeply rewarding. 

<p>I've still got a million things to do with it --
particularly in terms of efficiency, as we've been striving
to make it right first and then efficient -- but at least
other people will be looking at it. I'm a little leery of
this and have to remember that people generally just want
things to be better, that it's not personal. (A problem with
working remotely for a small company is that you have
little-to-no feedback on your actual work -- code -- just on
the results of the work.)

<p>It's also kinda funny (some would say ironic) because I
leave on Thursday (Sep 28) for Germany. So I won't get to
respond to email questions as quickly as I would like. So it
goes. 

<p>The DBD::ASAny author sent me a new version of the driver
that includes <tt>$sth-&gt;{TYPE}</tt> support -- woohoo! I
ran some tests and all tests passed 'ok'. (It's very
satisfying to type 'make test' and see that little 'ok' come
back as many times as you ask it to do something.) He also
modified the <tt>DBI-&gt;connect</tt> string so that it's
more in line with other DBD drivers. I love this community.

<p>It's taken longer than I thought (thanks largely to the
efforts of my boss), but my work situation --  at home,
alone, all the time -- is getting pretty old. I didn't think
I'd miss people as much as I do, since I'm slightly
introverted. But there it is. We'll see how it plays out.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=23">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
