[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Changing your approach' -%]

<h1>Changing your approach</h1>

<p>Last weekend during my ride I found I couldn't clip into my
pedals. After I pulled over I figured out why: the cleat had come
unscrewed from my shoe.[1] After screwing around with it for 10
minutes with the only tool I had on me (multi-hex wrench), I
turned around and rode back to the car.[2]</p>

<p>I meant to take it to a shop during the week, but something
always came up. And whenever I thought of taking it I made a
mental checklist of the things I figured they might try:</p>

<ul>
  <li>hold pedal still and whack one edge of it with mallet +
  something hard,</li>
  <li>try and seat the screws into my shoe enough to turn the
  cleat out,</li>
  <li>grab the sides with pliers/vice grip and twist.</li>
</ul>

<p>IMO this is a pretty limited list, and it gives you an idea of
how clumsy I am in the physical world. Faced with a similar
situation in code I'd have a half-dozen options at the ready and
have a pretty good ranking of their effectiveness vs time to
complete the task. Pretty much all by instinct.</p>

<p>'Instinct' isn't exactly the right word. The difference
between the two is that with one I have very little practice,
with the other I have loads. So it's not 'instinct' like a bird
who knows how to build a nest. Instead it's an internalization of
the space that the problem fits into and the associated
solutions. So someone who works often with his hands, even if
none of that experience is on bicycles, would have a very
different result.</p>

<p>So Saturday I finally tried to fix it myself. I went through
my checklist, quickly, with no results. Frustration grew. I then
tried varying my earlier options, and the first step was to set
the cleat toward one end of the clip so I could bang on it some
more and hopefully pop it out. To do this I figured I could shove
the cleat over with some leverage, and slid the edge of the large
flathead screwdriver between the cleat and pedal, and
twisted.</p>

<p>To my utter amazement, the back part of the cleat came loose!
A few more twists and the cleat was free. I couldn't believe how
easy the solution turned out to be, and how dumb I felt for not
seeing it.</p>

<p>Looking back, I knew that I didn't know what I was doing, and
compensated by trying to recreate how the cleat gets freed when
it's screwed to a shoe. But I didn't know enough to take that
lack of knowledge and readjust my approach. What I should have
done is look at the stuck cleat in terms of the forces holding it
in (the clips), and my options for exterting opposing forces for
getting it out. I wasn't thinking of a general problem, but
instead tryng to recreate a specific solution.</p>

<p>Generalizing, I think one of the reasons we tend to get stuck
on a problem is that we cannot look at it in a sufficiently
general way to compare it to other problems. So we focus on one
aspect of the problem that looks like another problem we have --
oh, this use of localization in column headers reminds me of the
time I used this cool AJAX live editable grid widget, so I'll do
that again. And we don't really think about the problem and
consider it on its own merits, so it remains unsolved.</p>

<hr noshade="noshade" /> 

<p>[1] Of course, the first thing I did was grab my G1 and search
for people who had the same problem. Nothing turned up. Hopefully
future sufferers will find this reference to a cleat getting
stuck in Time Atac pedals and be able to execute the simple
solution (wedge something betweeen the cleat and pedal, and
twist).</p>

<p>[2] Fortunately most of the return was downhill, so not being
able to clip in and exert more pedal pressure didn't hurt me as
much. It still took a little longer to get home, but that's a
pretty small price to pay.</p>

<!-- Tags: bicycle; learning; practice -->

<!--#include virtual="/includes/thread.html" -->

