[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Deciding on a job' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">August 30, 2004</span>
</p>
<h1>Deciding on a job</h1>

<p>Based on a sample of me I'd say the job market is looking quite
good. In the last two weeks I had four interviews and am now mulling
over three job offers -- and the fourth said they'd have a more
advanced position in a few weeks and would strongly consider me for
that. (But who knows if that would have actually come to pass?)</p>

<p>I'll talk more about the interviewing process later. For now I just
want to put this insomnia to good use and talk about the jobs and my
thought process for which one I'm likely to pick, leaving out the
names of the actual players so I don't get anyone in trouble. All
three of these are Java positions -- I didn't find any Perl positions
in Pittsburgh until pair posted <a
href="http://www.pair.com/about/jobs/jobs.html#softdev">a Software
Developer</a> position on Friday afternoon. Unfortunately this doesn't
meet my timeline as I'd already promised the folks who had given me
offers to have a decision by Monday (today).</p>

<p>(I started writing this as a Dating Game transcript but it didn't
quite gel. Hooray for the internal editor.)</p>
<p><b>The jobs</b></p>
<p>So here they are in an arbitrary order (largest company to
smallest):</p>

<p><b>Job #1</b> is on the North Side (a few blocks from PNC Park) and
I'd be working with someone I already know and respect (technically
and personally). In the long term we'd be creating a new team to
develop internal software to tie lots of disparate systems together,
but for the first three months we'd probably be working on stabilizing
an existing system to ensure that the monthly products are correct and
to make daily use and long-running processes faster. We'd likely have
some free rein over development process and tools. But it's a large
company and some attitudes (like requiring a DBA for doing anything to
development databases) are still ingrained. They've recently
instituted some form of process in terms of project scheduling and
prioritization but have no QA department and no dedicated testers.</p>

<p>Salary is ok (2% raise over current) and benefits are
fantastic. They also offered a substantial retention bonus. It would
be difficult to get any more stable than this company unless you work
for the federal government. Location is good for me because I can ride
the trolley downtown and hoof it across the Roberto Clemente
bridge. That might not be so great in the winter but IMO it's better
than driving. I know some people who have worked as contractors at
this company and what I know is not good. The atmosphere has been
described as 'toxic' by multiple people and the shoals they've needed
to navigate to get anything done have been legion. But the person who
interviewed me is a new director whom I liked quite a bit and seems to
be changing how things work with a good deal of success.</p>

<p>I found out about this position through personal/company
contacts.</p>

<p><b>Job #2</b> is with another fairly large company (~900 people)
and just a block or two from <b>Job #1</b>. This would be working on
an existing team with ~40 people on a mature enterprise media product,
and in particular my job would be to work on multiple teams and help
develop common components and possibly frameworks for use across
them. I'd learn a lot about deploying and configuring large systems on
commercial application servers as well as working with large Oracle
databases -- very valuable experience. I immediately took a liking to
one of the guys who interviewed me and with whom I'd probably work
fairly closely -- he has more experience than me and I think I'd be
able to learn a lot from him without being a leech.</p>

<p>Salary is the highest of the three (7% raise) and benefits are
ok. The company has been around 20+ years and is very stable. Location
is good for me (as mentioned earlier) but there's the possibility
within a year or three that the company could move to a new office out
in the North Hills sticks. (Yuck.) The atmosphere seems professional
and busy (lots of work to do, lots of cubes to fill) but the office
was a little "Office Space"-y, although that might have just been
me. They have a mature development process with documentation at every
step and testers on every functional team. They also let developers
use whatever editor/IDE they wish and don't have a standard, although
they're looking into Eclipse as a possible one.</p>

<p>I found out about this position by one of the HR people finding my
resume on monster.com. There was an annoying delay after I sent my
resume and other information but once I told them that I already had
two job offers they got me in for interviews two days later and
offered me the job on the following day.</p>

<p><b>Job #3</b> is in Penn Hills which almost prevented me from
sending a resume. I'm glad I sent it. This company makes small
voice-activated devices geared toward managing inventory. They
assemble and repair the devices onsite which was quite surprising. The
software I'd be working with is a management console to control these
devices. Here's the different part: I'd be working in QA as part of
the testing team for this application. This means not as much coding
as I'm used to. They have a development process not quite mature but
well beyond brand new.</p>

<p>Salary is between #1 and #2 (5% raise), although they've indicated
they're willing to add a signing bonus to the deal. Benefits are
excellent. The company has been around 15+ years and while they've
been growing quite a bit recently have seemed to manage it quite well
-- the founder stepped down to CTO a few years ago and a professional
CEO took over, which says to me they've already cleared the small
company humps.</p>

<p>Atmosphere is fantastic if a little bit physically crowded in the
development area. (Expected to get better by building out another
floor.) By all accounts this seems to be a company that actually
respects its employees and expects the same in return -- unfortunately
this seems to be quite rare. Dress is very casual from the top down
and they have a small fitness center onsite.</p>

<p>I found out about this position from the <a
href="http://careers.pghtech.org/resume/">Pittsburgh Technology
Council</a>, a necessity if you're looking for a job around here and
don't have lots of personal contacts. I sent my resume and a short
letter to the 'jobs@' email address and got an immediate "We got it"
response followed up by an interview a couple weeks later.</p>

<p><b>Deciding</b></p>
<p>After lots of thinking and talking with Barb and other folks I took
Job #1 out of the picture. It had a lot going for it and in the best
case could have been great. But the worst case would have really
sucked, and life's too short to work in difficult places. Plus, I'm
not so young that I can absorb a bad job experience like I used
to.</p>

<p>So it was between #2 and #3. While I did create a spreadsheet
comparing the two positions I didn't try to quantify every aspect of
the two positions and rely on the data to make my decision. My main,
mostly subjective, criteria were:</p>
<ol>
 <li>work: what would I actually be doing?
 <li>team: who would I be working with and how closely?
 <li>location: can I ride the trolley to get there?
 <li>career: how will this help me get future jobs?
 <li>company: will this company give me the shaft?
</ol>

<p>Job #2 was better for 1, 3 and 4, Job #3 better for 2 and 5. Item 1
was clearly better in Job #1 because I'd be coding and desiging all
the time. Item 2 was very close but still went to Job #3. Item 3 was a
no-brainer for Job #2 (to get to Job #3 we'd have to buy another car,
which unlike <a href="http://mark.denovich.org/">Mark</a> I'm loathe
to do). Item 4 was close because you could argue that getting into
testing (Job #3) and more work in the development process would be
invaluable with future work. But large-scale Oracle and Weblogic
experience (Job #2) is probably a license to print money. Item 5
wasn't too close: while Job #2 seems to have an okay company, Job #3
really stands out.</p>

<p>But the thing I kept coming back to is that you don't find
companies in Job #3 every day. When you find one, isn't it a good idea
to hitch your wagon to its horse and see where it takes you? Of
course, management and culture can change, but it struck me that of
all the people I talked to almost everyone mentioned the
mission/vision statement, the last line of which reads, "We commit to
balancing our personal and professional lives." That's unusual and
said to me that people take this balance seriously. Granted, people
doing interviews might be asked to mention such things but it really
didn't feel that way.</p>

<p>I've made a decision but I'm going to see if I can get a couple more hours of
sleep now and see if my thinking is still the same when I wake up. And
then it's one fun phone call and two awkward ones...</p>

<!-- Tags: daily life -->
