[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'YAPC impressions, Class::DBI, P5P bitterness' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">June 26, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>YAPC impressions, Class::DBI, P5P bitterness</h1>

<p>yapc was, of course, excellent. I don't know how 
<a
href="http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~damian/index.html">Damian
Conway</a> ever gets to sleep with all those smarts running
around in his head. Rusty <a
href="http://www.kuro5hin.org/?op=displaystory&sid=2000/6/25/172350/419">posted
a story about the quantum stuff</a> which gives better
details about it. One of the interesting side-effects of
hearing him talk is that whenever I read his Object Oriented
Perl book or any of the voluminous documentation his modules
provide, I'll have an Australian voice running around my
head...

<p>Another cool thing was meeting some folks who are doing
somewhat similar object persistence stuff. <a
href="http://www.yapc.org/America/schedule/author/schwern_dbi.html">Schwern's
talk on Class::DBI</a> was interesting, and I think I'm
going to swipe a few ideas from it -- with proper
attribution of course :) Having something akin to 'stored
procedures in perl' is very nifty. 

<p>The discussion after the talk was also useful. I learned
that nobody else seems to be tying security to object
persistence, so maybe there's hope for me yet :)

<p>Orwant's talk this year was somewhat cryptic, despite the
fact that I felt smug when he mentioned Temple Grandin and I
actually knew who she was. He seemed to be discussing all
the difficulties regarding copyright in a roundabout way,
which might be the only method you can discuss it with an
auditorium full of open-source geeks.

<p>Maybe it was me, but I detected an undercurrent of
concern regarding the upper levels of perl and the
divisiveness found on p5p. Questions like: where is this
coming from? Is this inevitable when a community grows? I'm
not sure these are answerable questions, but Larry seemed to
accept some of the blame when he said in his talk that he'd
been working on the new Camel book for the last six months
and hadn't had time to play his shepherd role. He also said
that people need to argue about what they're arguing about,
not bringing all the baggage into every argument. (He also
said this is a Good Thing for a marriage too, and being
almost three-months married now, I agree.)

<p>But that's just me on the outside looking in, so it's
probably wrong. 

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=4">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
