[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Who owns the code?' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">February 18, 2001</span>
</p>
<h1>Who owns the code?</h1>

<p>Wow, a <a
href="http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=01/02/18/2133205&mode=flat">decent
article on Slashdot</a> regarding the company/employee code
ownership swamp. (It's decent reading at +2, anyway.) Joel
Spolsky also has a good article on the <a
href="http://joel.editthispage.com/stories/storyReader$25">related
issue of NDAs</a> and the like.

<p>This sort of thing is quite scary. I've had two
experiences with this, neither of them terrible but both
with potential. Going into detail would probably be a bad
thing, but let's just say the terms of the agreement were
quite broad in saying who I could not work for after leaving
the company.

<p>The scary thing to me is that *people* actually write up
these documents without thinking about how it might apply to
them. One of the /. posters made the excellent point that
lawyers would never sign an agreement which made their
experience in a particular type of case law property of the
firm under which they gained the experience. But these same
lawyers seem to have no problem drawing up agreements for
software developers which say, for instance, that all
experience and knowledge learned regarding customer relation
management or other broad topic is property of the company
and the signee is strictly forbidden from working at a
company which might employ that experience.

<p>The thing they have on their side is that nobody wants to
get involved with a lawsuit -- it's expensive and brands you
forever as some sort of rabble-rouser. Quite the chilling
effect....

<p>In (mostly) fun news: rewriting the packaging system for
OpenInteract to dump the GDBM stuff. Should have done this
quite some time ago, but it's quite a bit of work. (So much
that I should really be doing other things right now...)

<p>Finally saw "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" this
weekend. Some amazing scenes and scenery. Well worth it,
altho it would have been nice at a better theater.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=41">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: programming -->
