[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Framework name, hardware foo, new job for Barb' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">July 27, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>Framework name, hardware foo, new job for Barb</h1>

<p>First of two demos of the framework that we had to be
ready for, although this one was certainly the lighter
weight of the two. The lack of phone calls means that
everything must have gone well.

<p>We decided on an initial name for the framework
(OpenInteract) but we haven't gotten the licensing stuff
worked out yet. I'm thinking GPL/Artistic (just like perl),
but we have to get NDA stuff worked out first, plus a little
infrastructure would be a good thing...

<p>Got a new hard drive today and installed it, along with
transferring the old CD ROM out and moving a newer one in.
(The old one wasn't cooperating with the mp3 ripping s/w --
yes, I've been bitten by that bug. I can see a rio in my
future...). Doing stuff with hardware can be very
satisfying. As long as you do it every once in a while
rather than eight hours a day. The first task assigned to me
when I got the job at IREX a few years ago was to build a
bunch (10+) of cheap-o intel machines, configure them with
Win95 and get them on the network. The cheap-o-ness of them
manifested itself in the myriad cuts sprouting on both hands
from the crappy metal used in the cases. Ouch. Mark and
Christopher still chuckle about that...

<p>The k5 happenings have been amazing, and really
underscore the ease with which almost anything on the web
can be taken down. Things like this make me very nervous
about having a large, public community site. How many such
attacks does ebay get? I don't like relying on the whims of
script kiddies as to whether a site of mine gets taken down.

<p>In any case, it's excellent the support Rusty has
received. The /. guys have been excellent -- I'm sure they
put a bug in the ear of VA Linux about the hardware, to
boot. Hopefully he'll find a good home for it if he decides
to move it (which I think he was going to do anyway).

<p>Also: Barb got a job! It only took a couple weeks after
she left the symphony, but she'll be teaching middle school
english at a private school about five minutes away. It's
amazing how little compensation teachers get: what a shame.

<p>I also had something bouncing around my head about
version numbering reluctance, but it's not quite there
yet...

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=11">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: oi2; opensource -->
