[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Finishing up the job' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">November 11, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>Finishing up the job</h1>

<p>Yesterday was my last day at <a
href="http://www.intes.net/">intes.net</a>, and while things
are not entirely finished, it was a good stopping point.
Christian was here over the last week and we worked on
documentation for <a
href="http://www.advogato.org/proj/OpenInteract/">OpenInteract</a> and fixed a few
bugs. The installer is (IMO) kick-ass right now -- 10
minutes after downloading OpenInteract, you can install it
(normal Perl stuff), create a base installation, create a
website, configure the website, import all the initial data
and templates, setup the Apache virtual hosts and have a
fully functioning website! (Well, for first-time users it
might take a little longer :)

<p>Still, I did this for the guys at intes.net and
everything worked just like it was supposed to work. Very
cool. They're building a new web application development
team centered around this and other work, and I think they
can make it work. The company is also skewing much younger
now, which is kind of funny. The last four or five people
hired have all been around 20 - 23. Makes the company's
founders look like geezers...

<p>We settled once and for all that the core OpenInteract
framework will be Artistic/GPL -- our sister company raised
some concerns (legal and otherwise), but we settled them. So
I can still work on this thing. But it's at a point now
where other folks can take it and run in new directions.
Nice feeling.

<p>So, new job starts on Monday. I should have left at least
a couple days breathing room between the two...

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=32">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
