[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Creepy clown says adios' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">November 6, 2006</span>
</p>
<h1>Creepy clown says adios</h1>

<p>
<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/cwinters/290512226/" title="Photo Sharing"><img src="http://static.flickr.com/122/290512226_2a9c72d75a_m.jpg" width="209" height="240" alt="The clown finally leaves the attic" align="right"/></a>
</p>

<p>We moved into our house a little over two years ago. The woman who
lived there before us was older, I'd guess in her upper 60s, and
seemed a little bitter and crabby, someone who spent a lot of her time
smoking and watching the local news on a tiny TV in the kitchen.</p>

<p>The second time we met her Barb commented on the clowns that were
all over the house: paintings, small statues even in the bathroom. The
lady said, "You know, I used to be a clown." Barb and I gave each
other the barely raised eyebrow that married couples develop that
says, "Did I hear what I just think I heard? Honey, follow up on
that..."</p>

<p>So I said, trying to sound like I didn't quite hear her, "I'm
sorry, did you say you were a clown?" She confirmed, said that it was
a long time ago but in that tone of voice that said she might want to
talk about it. But since the house was being inspected and we had more
important things to do, we let it drop.</p>

<p>When we opened up our empty house for the first time we
half-expected to find clowns. Thankfully, we were disappointed. We
merrily went about ripping up carpet and wallpaper for a couple of
months and the clowns left our minds.</p>

<p>But a couple months after we moved in we found the clown from the
photo, leering at us from the attic. We didn't find it immediately
because it was back a little from the door, and because the attic
doesn't have a light you wouldn't immediately see it unless you were
looking. So the first time I saw his evil face clown it gave me a
nasty start. Not quite Stephen King, but still creepy.</p>

<p>Being lazy bastards we left it up there -- we didn't have much need
for the attic beyond a few boxes. But with baby stuff taking over the
spare bedroom we needed to use it more. So, I finally took the clown
down to the curb this morning, finally rid of the last clown in the
house. It had better be the last we see of it.</p>


<!-- Tags: clown; house -->
