[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Wiper failure as feature' -%]

<h1>Wiper failure as feature</h1>

<p>Barb and I had a few hours off tonight and went to a
bookstore, but I'd forgotten my current book. Browsing around I
found one from John Seabrook, a writer whose work I really enjoy;
I know him from his articles in the New Yorker and his book 
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Nobrow-Culture-Marketing/dp/0375704515">Nobrow</a>.</p>

<p>This book was 
<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Flash-Genius-Other-Stories-Invention/dp/0312535724/">Flash
of Genius</a>, 
a collection of stories about invention. And in the title story
(basis for the 
<a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1054588/">recent movie</a>)
there's the following passage about a competing intermittent
wiper system:</p>

<blockquote>
It was something of a Rube Goldberg contraption. It had
twenty-nine moving parts, which meant a lot of potential for
breaking down. When the driver accelerated, the vacuum was
insufficient to run the intermittent mode, and the wipers would
default to high speed. Trico [the manufacturer], in trying to
sell the wiper to Ford, advertised this as a specially designed
passing feature -- useful, say, in overtaking a truck on a rainy
day. "The engineers saw it for what it was, which was a design
flaw," [Ford engineer] Daykin said. "But the planners thought
that the passing feature was really neat."
</blockquote>

<p>How many times have you seen software do the same thing? We
even have a saying for it, the sarcastic: "It's not a bug, it's a
feature."</p>

<!-- Tags: technology; management; selling -->
