[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'An OI implementation, coding standards, Just Working' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">August 29, 2000</span>
</p>
<h1>An OI implementation, coding standards, Just Working</h1>

<p>Getting ready to roll out a website based on
OpenInteract, the first public one. It's fairly limited --
lots of static pages, news, polls and all the user/group
stuff. Nothing too complicated, so it should be a good test.

<p>Finally (!) started writing up a document that outlines
some coding standards for <a
href="http://www.intes.net/">our company</a>. (Since I'm the
"senior" programmer, it's both my responsibility and my
perogative.) Not done yet, but I think I set out some good
guidelines. You don't want to make people feel like big
brother is watching and mandating that everything be this
plain-vanilla way. But you also want things to be
consistent, and there's also a little of the NIH syndrome
(just a wee bit). And there's the additional baggage of
perl's rep as a write-only language and the fact that most
folks we hire will likely come from a C/Java/C++ background
where things like StudlyCaps are the norm.

<p>My wife's grandmother is staying with us for a few days.
She's fun to hang out with, and it's nice to have someone
(besides the cats) around during the day, to eat lunch with
and shoot the breeze.

<p>After working at home for so long, I wonder if I'll ever
be able to (or want to) work in a "real office" again?

<p>It's a nice feeling when you build something, think of
something new to do with it, make the small change and it
<b>just works</b>. The feeling of <b>just works</b> is
something I associate strongly with open source programs,
and by having something of mine exhibit the same behavior I
feel like I'm doing something right.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=17">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
