[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'New laptop (sorta) and playing with Postgres' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">March 12, 2001</span>
</p>
<h1>New laptop (sorta) and playing with Postgres</h1>

<p>Got a "new" laptop -- basically, a stripped down older
one which had the parts my current one needs. So I took the
extra memory, hard drive and CD ROM out of my old one and
put it in the new one. Result: rock and roll at a blazing
166 MMX megahertz. Still, the price was decent (ebay
purchase) and my laptop was just gathering dust since the
LCD was incredibly spotty and the pc card slots were super
flaky.

<p>I hope to be able to use it at a presentation for <a
href="http://www.yapc.org/America/">yapc</a> -- maybe more
than one if I can get the tuits to do both OpenInteract and
SPOPS.

<p>Coincidentally, there was some discussion of a message
queue system on the mod_perl mailing list over the weekend.
Serendipity favors the bold: <a
href="http://poe.perl.org/">POE</a> experimentation
awaits.

<p>Someone pointed out that 'oid' was a reserved keyword in
Postgres (doh!), so I made another fix for SPOPS to make
that work and will hopefully finish testing it later on
tonight. I've been reading up on Postgres and am thinking
that everything I currently do in mysql I should do in
Postgres. There was a <a
href="http://archive.develooper.com/dbi-users@perl.org/msg00945.html">brutal
email</a> regarding MySQL on the DBI list today. It wasn't
anything I hadn't heard before, but it just got me thinking
that there isn't much of an excuse to use it anymore. (OTOH
the email author seems to be of the "if it's not Oracle it's
not much" mindset, which ticks me off. For most
applications, Oracle is vast overkill (IMO). Yes, there are
plenty of apps where only Oracle will do, but most companies
don't run those apps.)

<p>OpenInteract on Sybase ASE/ASA seems to work fine now.
Once we get PostgreSQL onboard I can chill out on that front
until someone backs a dump truck of money to my house to
make everything work with Oracle.

<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=45">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: perl -->
