[%- META
      menu_choice = 'blog'
      page_title  = 'Walking around SF, other ideas' %]
<p class="post-footer align-right">
  <span class="date">August 9, 2001</span>
</p>
<h1>Walking around SF, other ideas</h1>

<p>Went to wedding in Monterey (CA) and then to SF for a day
of walking around, eating, etc. Nice place (last time I was
there I was eight), but once we saw a 'For Rent' sign for a
relatively normal 3BR place in Russian Hill ($3600), the
airy dreams of moving got some cold reality water. 
Beautiful wedding, too.

<p>Verizon has tipped me over the edge -- inbound port 80 is
now blocked for DSL customers and will probably be for the
foreseeable future. (I need to setup a proxy somewhere and
run my stuff on port 81, hassle hassle.) I'll wait a bit to
see if they change their policy, but I'm looking around at
different providers. Unfortunately, there would be a
one-to-two week period where I'd have no DSL service at all.
Bleh.

<p>Excellent ideas going on with <a href="http://www.advogato.org/proj/SPOPS/">SPOPS</a> right
now -- one of the active contributors wants to be able to
synchronize an object so multiple processes can access and
use the same object concurrently. Immediately terrible
visions of EJBs flood my head, but wait -- it's optional!
Every get/set method doesn't require an RPC! It's not
something to be designed around -- use it or don't use it,
your choice!

<p>Plus, <tt>SPOPS::LDAP</tt> is functioning, so you can use
an LDAP directory as a datastore. Sweet. Still some more
features to add, but I should be able to meet the deadline.

<p>Now that I think of it, we're getting some nice
'enterprise' functionality -- LDAP, synchronized objects --
all we need to do is <b>something</b> with XML and
computerworld will be knocking at our door :-)

<p>And a colleague has finally turned me onto <a
href="http://www.gnus.org/">Gnus</a> for all my messaging
needs -- he uses the IMAP interface frequently and with no
problems. Once I get cyrus setup I think I'll switch, just
making it something else to learn, something else to never
leave xemacs for...


<p><em>(Originally posted <a href="http://www.advogato.org/person/cwinters/diary.html?start=65">elsewhere</a>)</em></p>

<!-- Tags: programming -->
